I.

The Capture.


In the year 1814 Provincetown was the rendezvous of the British fleet
which harassed the Massachusetts merchant marine and levied tribute on
the towns of Cape Cod. The inhabitants of the Cape were practically
defenceless against the enemy, and though the artillery of the period
was of insignificant calibre as compared with the big guns of the
present day, the British gunners were able to terrorize the scattered
communities of the coast and it was a time of stress and trouble for
the good people of Cape Cod.

Added to this, the war was unpopular in the district. The embargo
proved disastrous to American shipping and particularly affected the
seagoing population of the Cape. When we consider that Cape Cod was
vitally interested in maritime pursuits we can understand how the
deadlock in commerce was responsible for local discontent. The position
of the inhabitants immediately under the fire of the warships was
well-nigh intolerable, but their patriotism never wavered however much
they disapproved of the war.

One summer day in this troublous year, a large whaleboat emerged from
Boston harbor and bore away for Eastham, Cape Cod. The crew consisted
of two men, Winslow L. Knowles and Matthew H. Mayo. They were both
in the prime of life, typical Cape Codders, and had been masters of
fine vessels before the war destroyed the trade. Their whaleboat was
a tiny craft in comparison with the stately merchantmen in which they
had sailed the seven seas, and the skippers keenly felt their fallen
fortunes. They were now at the very nadir of the profession, forced to
sneak from port to port in a vessel not much larger than one of the
ships’ boats of their former commands.

But what was the use of complaining? That villainous British fleet with
its barges and light cruisers was never far away. A round shot across
their path might at any moment bring them to, and then the Eastham
folks would have to go without the goodly supply of food and drink with
which the boat was laden.

As they crept across the bay before a light wind the skippers exchanged
reminiscences of their long voyages and found satisfaction in relating
stirring episodes of their experiences. Meantime, a good lookout was
kept for the enemy, but the coast seemed clear with the exception of a
small schooner dead ahead. They took her to be a Duxbury fisherman.

“It seems to me, Win, that the ‘Spencer’ must be in Provincetown. There
hasn’t been much for her to fuss about lately.”

Captain Mayo was somewhat older than his companion. He was generally
known as “Hoppy” Mayo, the sobriquet being derived from his middle name
“Hophney.”

“Yes, it looks that way, Hoppy; but you can never tell anything about
that frigate. Old Raggett has got a fine ship and he likes to show her
off. Shouldn’t be surprised to see her at any moment.”

“Raggett is a fair enough chap,” said Hoppy. “Of course, he has to obey
orders, and he’s got to do the dirty work planned for him in London;
but he’s not looking for trouble and if he doesn’t catch you in the act
he lets a good many things pass.”

“Damn this war, anyhow,” said Captain Knowles bitterly.

“Yes, Win, damn the war if you like, but it had to come. Why, that last
voyage Zeke Bangs made didn’t a British man-o’-war take four men out
of his ship and he dare not kick! These Britishers think they own the
world, land and water alike, and ’twas about time to let them know some
other people had a few rights.”

“Yes, but we weren’t prepared for war,” retorted Captain Knowles.

“Seems to me we were just as much prepared as we were when the
Revolution was started. Good Lord, man, how long do you think we should
wait while this bully of the seas was driving us to desperation? Isn’t
it bad enough to pay tribute to the Algerine pirates? Must we forever
be treated as children? Does any sensible person think this American
nation is going to remain in swaddling clothes until the crack o’ doom?”

The argument continued with unabated vigor until the whaleboat was
nearly abreast of the schooner which had been forgotten in the heat of
the discussion. Suddenly a round shot plunged into the water and both
skippers jumped to their feet.

“What the devil is that for?” exclaimed Hoppy.

“Well, it means that we’re caught in a trap,” replied Captain Knowles.

And so it proved to be. The schooner which they had taken for an
inoffensive fisherman was manned by British seamen from the “Spencer,”
and was one of many captured craft which the enemy used for operations
in the shallower waters of Cape Cod bay. A second shot brought the
whaleboat to.