The room of hope was a square white box filled with shiny chrome
cabinets. In the center was a table on little silent rubber wheels,
with a lamp looking down upon it like a gigantic unblinking eye.

A slight willowy man gushed at her and gripped her arms with
exuberance, and covered her over with the moist film of his bright and
eager eyes.

His voice was high and shrill. "So you want to be beautiful, lovely to
look at?"

"Yes."

"You shall be, my dear. Lie down please, lie down and trust me. You
will have to trust me, of course. Simply have to trust me just the
same."

"Will I be really beautiful--like the receptionist in the outer office?"

"Ha, ha, my dear!" He was pushing and pulling and finally she was lying
down and staring at the whirling lines of the white ceiling and seeing
Kelsey's smiling waiting yearning face in it. "That is a joke, a very
funny joke. The receptionist out there is a human being. At least she
would lead the unsuspecting to believe that she is. However, I must
confess, my dear, that I have learned the sad truth that she is human
in name only, that her heart is ice, and she is bitter with ambition."

"But she is so beautiful."

"Ah, but beauty is as beauty does, my dear. Or as beauty thinks.
And sweet little ambitious Della in the outer office does not think
lovely thoughts. Not at all, believe me. I have learned that from sad
experience."

His hands hovered over her eagerly, fluidly, as though there were no
bones in them.

"I want to be as beautiful as possible."

"You are fortunate in having been sent to Julian. I promise that under
my touch you shall blossom into radiant beauty, the essence of feminine
loveliness. You will be simply devastating."

He placed the tips of his long white fingers together and studied her
with his head angled like a bird's. "A brunette, I think--"

"I'd rather be a blonde."

"Oh, you would, would you, my dear! You seem extraordinarily concerned
for a robot." He stepped back and studied her curiously and the black
eyes sharpened like narrowing beams of black searching light.

"You know," he said softly, "I studied in the greatest Salons of the
continent to beautify women. Now I specialize in beautifying robots.
Why? Simple but paradoxical, but not as paradoxical as it might seem. I
can make a robot lovelier than a human."

"Lovelier than a human being!"

"Exactly. Much lovelier. Beauty comes from within as the sages say.
It comes from the heart and the soul, my dear. And so few humans any
longer have either heart or soul. Of course, that would imply that
robots do have hearts and souls, so please, my dear, do not repeat what
I have said. Already I am thought to be excessively eccentric for this
sad conformistic age of orthodoxy and stupid unimaginative dependency.
Beauty comes from individuality and strength, my dear. It comes from
sadness and the ability to admit a sense of tragedy. Ah--but it is
sad for me, for Julian, my dear. That my fulfillment comes only from
adding a sense of life to humanoids. And looking at you--the likes of
you--sometimes I wonder if you--"

His voice trailed off like smoke and he shrugged and waved his hands in
the air. "So you want to be a blonde. Why a blonde?"

"A tall blonde," she said, "with lots and lots of sex appeal."

He kissed the tips of his fingers and rolled his eyes. "Your wish shall
be granted. I, Julian, will outdo myself." He leaned over her. His
voice was low. "Why is it that a robot can be made more beautiful than
a human? Tell me, my dear, tell me and I shall never tell anyone else.
Do you have a soul? Do you have a heart? Do you know what it is to be
sad and alone and can you find some pleasure in it? Do you perhaps even
find pleasure in yourself, and sometimes find it unnecessary to swim in
a sea of humanity like a brainless protozoon?"

"But will I feel real, the way a human feels?"

He straightened up slowly. He touched his forehead, where beads of
sweat were forming, and slowly he licked his thin red lips.