“Or that he doesn’t care for you?” Vicky went on.

There was a mist of tears in Mollie’s eyes. “How do I know? I haven’t
seen him for years. Maybe he doesn’t—any longer——”

The girl protested vigorously. “Don’t you know him better’n that? Of
_course_ he does. You’ll see.”

The pent-up secret of Mollie’s heart came out tremulously. “I sent him
away. I told him to forget me. Men don’t remember always—like we women
do.”

Vicky took active charge of the campaign. “I’ll tell you what, Sister
Mollie. You put on that blue-print dress, the one with the flowered
pattern—an’ lemme fix your hair—an’ when you see him forget every
single thing except how glad you are to see him.”

Light-footed and swift, Vicky moved about the room making ready for the
transformation of her sister. She was a girl given at times to silences,
but just now she was voluble as a magpie. Her purpose was to divert
Mollie’s thoughts from herself for the present.

After the flowered dress had been donned and the soft thick hair
arranged to Vicky’s satisfaction, that young lady stood back and clapped
her hands. “Come into the parlour and look at the sweetest and prettiest
thing in Carson,” she cried, catching her sister’s hand and dragging her
forward. “If Colonel McClintock doesn’t think you’re _just dear_, it’ll
be because he’s gone blind.”

Mollie took one look in the glass, then caught at the sideboard to
steady herself. For a voice from the doorway answered Vicky’s prophecy.

“He does think so, just as he always has.”

Scot came across the room in three long strides and swept Mollie into
his arms. The breath of life flooded her cheeks and flung out a flag of
joy. Her soldier had come home from the wars. He still wanted her.

“You’ve heard,” she cried.

“That the courts have freed you. Of course.”

Mollie wept happy tears through which smiles struggled. Vicky, dominated
by a sense of delicacy, regretfully withdrew and left them to talk the
murmurous disjointed language of lovers that has come down from Adam and
Eve in the garden. Fifteen minutes later she poked her head back into
the room and coughed discreetly.

“Vicky, when can you have my girl ready?” Scot demanded.

“Ready for what?” she asked.

But she knew for what. Her face sparkled. The slim body wriggled with
excitement, as a happy, expectant puppy does.

“For the wedding, of course.”

“In twenty minutes,” answered Vicky promptly.

“Good. I met Father Marston at the Ormsby House when the stage came in.
I’ll be back in time.”

Mollie protested, blushing. She had no clothes. She did not think she
wanted to be married in such a hurry. Proper arrangements must be made.
Vicky and Scot brushed her excuses aside peremptorily.

In his blue uniform McClintock strode down the street, the sword still
swinging at his side. He knew where to find Father Marston, who was
chaplain of the legislature, now in special session.

Delavan Marston was a character. Rough and rugged, he struck straight
from the shoulder. His tastes and habits were liberal. He liked a good
cigar and a good glass of wine. Generally he was called Father Marston,
though he was a Protestant.

He rose, tall and gaunt, to open the assembly with prayer, just as Scot
came into the hall. The soldier listened to a remarkable petition. A
member of the legislature had been complaining because the chaplain’s
prayers were too long.

“And they don’t get practical results,” the member had added. “If they’d
make the rock in my tunnel any softer or the water in my ditch more
plentiful I’d favour ’em. But they look to me like a waste of time.”

A kind friend had reported the grumbler’s words to Marston. This morning
he made his petition short enough and direct enough.

“O Lord,” he prayed sonorously, “we ask Thee to remember in particular
one of our number. Make the rock in his tunnel as soft as his head and
the water in his ditch as plentiful as the whisky he daily drinks.
Amen.”