It didn't look as if anybody else could possibly wait around in the
blockhouse without further fouling up the already-present confusion.

"Let's go look at the transportation," Randy suggested.

McCauley shrugged and followed Randy outside. It was comforting that
nobody paid any attention to him. At least the people in charge of the
shoot weren't worrying about his not being okayed for the job.

In the sunshine again, he saw familiar things. The close-by trackers
in their pits, sunk below ground level in case something blew. The
telemeter receivers looked like huge wire bowls, decorated with rolls
of toilet tissue, aimed at the sky. They moved back and forth, testing.
They'd get back telemetered information and sort it out and make
tapes of it, and whoever read those tapes would know more about what
was happening than McCauley did. A telemetering system will sample a
practically indefinite number of instrument readings three hundred
times a second and send back the information in wild banshee howls or
else in scratchy noises that sound like all the static in the world
coming out of one loud-speaker.

Even so, things were better than they used to be, for there was a
time when not nearly so much information got back. For that matter,
McCauley'd heard about the tame German scientist--formerly of
Peenem√ºnde--who used to stand out in the open behind the blockhouse
when those first rockets went up, sweating and squinting and saying,
"Goot!" "Goot!" as long as he could see that things were going well,
and sputtering despairingly and unintelligibly in German when they went
wrong.

They went wrong pretty often in the beginning, back ten years or so
ago. There was the time a rocket went up and simply vanished. All the
trackers lost it and nobody had the least idea where it'd gone. All the
men sat around biting their nails and wondering where in blazes it was.
Finally there'd been a telephone call from a woman in Alamogordo. She'd
managed to reach someone with authority to route her call though to the
blockhouse.

"Ah hear you folks are shootin' up rockets," she said in an indignant
drawl. "Well, you-all better come an' get your rocket outa my backyard
right now!"

It had landed in her backyard, many miles away, and it had missed her
house by no more than twenty feet.

Another time--a long, long while ago--a V-2 tied itself into knots and
headed for Mexico. When it came down near Juarez, all the Mexicans for
miles around came on the run with hacksaws. After they'd cut off pieces
of it for "space souvenirs," there wasn't much left to be hauled back
to base....

McCauley followed Randy around to the front. They walked over the hot
sandy ground to the launching tower. There was a fuel truck there, and
the sickly-sweet but bitter smell of hydrazine. The fueling gang wore
plastic coveralls with hoods and clear plastic faceplates. McCauley
knew this process; he'd helped with it. But today he kept carefully
out of the way. The fueling gang was finicky about its work. Each man
was extravagantly careful not to spill a drop of hydrazine, because if
somebody stepped on a drop that had spilled and then, later on, stepped
on a drop of nitric that had spilled, he'd have a hotfoot to end all
hotfoots--on that foot, anyhow, because he wouldn't have it any longer.

The hydrazine topped off. The truck went away, with everything
carefully closed up lest a drop of anything spill on to the ground. The
fueling gang went to change coveralls, for they wore coveralls of a
different color when they were going to load up the nitric acid. Never
the twain--hydrazine and nitric--should meet until pumped together into
a rocket engine.

The Aerobee was tall and sleek and smooth and streamlined, but now
there were ladders leaning against it. Somebody was working through a
door in the sidewall. McCauley went around and glanced at the guide
rail. The Aerobee used a short-time booster to start up. The booster
ran up the rail to the top of the launching tower and then landed
somewhere nearby. But the Aerobee would keep on going. By the time it
reached the top of the tower and the end of the guide rail, it should
be going fast enough for its fins to have some grip on the air. When
the air got too thin to be of any use, the steam-jets working from the
fin tips should guide it.

The nitric acid truck came slowly into position. It didn't cross
the track the hydrazine truck had taken, and stopped in an
entirely different place; the fueling crew reappeared, in their
different-colored plastic coveralls. The precautions taken against the
premature introduction of hydrazine and nitric acid were remarkable.

McCauley let himself look up once at the nose-cone. He'd tried it on
for size before. In it, he was going to have to take the launching jolt
of more gees than any jet pilot has to be prepared for. But he felt a
serene confidence that he could do it.