X

THE LAST FLICKER

It is an error to suppose that the Jacobites were ready to surrender
all hope of resistance without a last bid for terms, if not for
victory.  Culloden was lost, but a large body of the clans had not
come up in time to engage in the battle.  An ignominious flight spelt
utter ruin to the chiefs and unquestioned submission to the
Government, whereas a stand in the hills was eminently suited to
Highland warfare.  Cavalry were useless in rough country and southern
soldiers easily outwitted and confused.

Had Prince Charles not lost his head in the debacle of Culloden he
might have remained King of the Highlands if not of Scotland itself.

Unfortunately, the strength of the Jacobite army was also its
greatest weakness.  Quick to mobilize and equipped by centuries of
warfare for the field, they were also unaccustomed to a prolonged
campaign.  The quick fight and the swift retreat, the raid by night
and the tireless pursuit were their notion of war.  They cared little
enough for the rights or wrongs of a quarrel so long as they could
kill a man or two, and make home again with a few head of cattle.

For this reason the delay and confusion following hard upon Culloden
played havoc with the Jacobite army.  Once their faces were set
homewards no power on earth could stop the clans.  They were weary of
campaigning on scanty fare and small pay.  A few short days and the
Children of the Mist were gathered into their own mountains and the
army had melted into a few scattered remnants waiting for a leader.
On the shores of Arkaig a few futile conferences took place, and then
followed hard the inevitable dispersion.

Lord Lovat, on whom the chiefs still laid a certain trust, was
carried to Muirlaggan, where Lochiel, Glenbucket, Murray of Broughton
and others awaited him.

They rose as he was carried into their midst, moved by a kind of
reverence for infirm old age.

Murray of Broughton shivering with illness, with flickering agitated
eyes, stood tapping with his fingers upon the rough table.  He knew
Lovat of old, and had suffered at his hands; Lochiel, pale from his
wound, looked liked a man more heart-broken than anxious.  Of all the
Jacobite leaders he was the great gentleman and one whose life and
motives were of the purest.

Lord Lovat was perfectly at his ease.  He took the head of the table
without question, scrutinizing each face from under his shaggy brows
unconquered as ever.

"Well, gentlemen," he said, "I take it ye have not accepted Culloden
day as your _coup de gr√¢ce_?"

Lochiel shook his head.

"No, no," he said vacantly, "it is our poor people that we are minded
of," at which Murray nodded, avoiding Lovat's stony stare.

"I too, have a clan," said the old man sombrely, "I have never
forgotten that.  There is also my son."

They had in common courtesy to acknowledge that he was as deeply
involved as any.

"It is our duty to prevent Cumberland taking a ruthless vengeance on
our people," he continued; "rather than leave them to Hanoverian
justice, we should be prepared to die sword in hand."

Murray of Broughton stirred uneasily.

"I fear your lordship does not know how scattered our forces are--the
Prince flying for his life--the clans unwilling to mobilize again."

Very slowly Lovat raised his face, and stared Murray down.  Then
turning to Lochiel he said: "Is that not true?" as though the
Prince's secretary had not spoken at all.

"I am ready to sacrifice everything if we can make a stand," replied
the chief of the Camerons simply.

"I think your lordship did not catch my meaning," broke in Murray in
a fluster.

"I think," corrected Lovat with composure, "I caught it finely."

"Your lordship's pardon if I seem to take a liberty," said Roy
Stuart, "but what can we do more than we have done during the last
few months?  We have been promised French aid--none has come.  We
have looked for French gold--there has been little enough of that.
The English Jacobites have lain like rats in a hole."