Well, it was spring with Nature, and it was spring in Archie's heart.

Work was a pleasure to him.

That last sentence really deserves a line to itself.  Without the
ghost of an intention to moralise, I must be permitted to say, that
the youth who finds an undoubted pleasure in working is sure to get
on in Australia.  There is that in the clear, pure, dry air of the
back Bush which renders inactivity an impossibility to anyone except
ne'er-do-wells and born idiots.  This is putting it strongly, but it
is also putting it truthfully.

Archie felt he had done with Sydney, for a time at all events, when
he left.  He was not sorry to shake the dust of the city from his
half-wellingtons as he embarked on the _Canny Scotia_, bound for
Brisbane.

If the Winslows had not been among the passengers he certainly would
have given vent to a sigh or two.

All for the sake of sweet little Etheldene?  Yes, for her sake.  Was
she not going to be Rupert's wife, and his own second sister?  Oh, he
had it all nicely arranged, all cut and dry, I can assure you!

Here is a funny thing, but it is also a fact.  The very day that the
_Canny Scotia_ was to sail, Archie took Harry with him, and the two
started through the city, and bore up for the shop of Mr. Glorie.

They entered.  It was like entering a gloomy vault.  Nothing was
altered.  There stood the rows on rows of dusty bottles, with their
dingy gilt labels; the dusty mahogany drawers; the morsel of
railinged desk with its curtain of dirty red; there were the murky
windows with their bottles of crusted yellows and reds; and up there
the identical spider still working away at his dismal web, still
living in hopes apparently of some day being able to catch a fly.

The melancholy-looking new apprentice, who had doubtless paid the new
premium, a long lantern-jawed lad with great eyes in hollow sockets,
and a blue-grey face, stood looking at the pair of them.

"Where is your master, Mr.----?"

"Mr. Myers, sir.  Myers is my name."

"Where is Mr. Glorie, Mr. Myers?"

"D' ye wish to see 'm, sir?"

"Don't it seem like it?" cried Harry, who for the life of him "could
not help putting his oar in."

"Master's at the back, among--the soap."

He droned out the last words in such a lugubrious tone that Archie
felt sorry for him.

Just then, thinking perhaps he scented a customer, Mr. Glorie himself
entered, all apron from the jaws to the knees.

"Ah!  Mr. Glorie," cried Archie.  "I really couldn't leave Sydney
without saying ta-ta, and expressing iny sorrow for breaking----"

"Your indenture, young sir?"

"No; I'm glad I broke that.  I mean the oil-jar.  Here is a sovereign
towards it, and I hope there's no bad feeling."

"Oh, no, not in the least, and thank you, sir, kindly!"

"Well, good-bye.  Good-bye, Mr. Myers.  If ever I return from the
Bush I'll come back and see you."

And away they went, and away went Archie's feeling; of gloom as soon
as he got to the sunny side of the street.

"I say," said Harry, "that's a lively coon behind the counter.  Looks
to me like a love-sick bandicoot, or a consumptive kangaroo.  But
don't you know there is such a thing as being too honest?  Now that
old death-and-glory chap robbed you, and had it been me, and I'd
called again, it would have been to kick him.  But you're still the
old Johnnie."

* * * * * *

Now if I were writing all this tale from imagination, instead of
sketching the life and struggles of a real live laddie, I should have
ascended into the realms of romance, and made a kind of hero of him
thus: he should have gone straight away to the bank when he received
that Â£50 from his uncle, and sent it back, and then gone off to the
bush with twopence halfpenny in his pocket, engaged himself to a
squatter as under-man, and worked his way right up to the pinnacle of
fortune.