A brown paper parcel, for example, was marked "1 gross: gum-rings."

"That was a job lot," said Bob, explaining.  "I got them at a
reduction, as the fellow said.  Besides, if she has one in each hand,
and another in her mouth, it will keep her out of mischief for a
month or two to begin with."

There was no mistake about it, baby was set up; for a time, at all
events.

Not only did visitors--rough and smooth, but mostly rough--come from
afar, but letters of congratulation also.  Winslow said in a letter
that Etheldene was dying to come and see "the vision," and so was he,
though not quite so bad.  "Only," he added, "as soon Eth is finished
we'll both run up.  Eth is going to Melbourne to be finished, and I
think a year will do the job."

"Whatever does he mean," said stalwart Bob, "by finishing Eth, and
doing the job?"

"Why, you great big brush turkey," said Sarah, "he means finishing
her edication, in coorse!"

"Oh, I see now!" said Bob.  "To be sure; quite right.  I say, Sarah,
we'll have to send "the vision" to a slap-up lady's school one of
these days, won't us?"

"Bob," replied Sarah severely, "tell that lazy black chap, Jumper, to
dig some potatoes."

"I'm off, Sarah!  I'm off!"

Both Harry and Archie had by this time become perfect in all a
squatter's art.

Both had grown hard and hardy, and I am not sure that Harry was not
now quite as bold a rider as Archie himself, albeit he was a Cockney
born, albeit he had had to rub himself after that first ride of his
on Scallowa, the "Eider Duck."

Well, then, both he and Archie were perfectly _au fait_ at cattle
work in all its branches, and only those who have lived on and had
some interest in farming have an idea what a vast amount of practical
work breeding cattle includes.  One has really to be
Jack-of-all-trades, and a veterinary surgeon into the bargain.

Moreover, if he be master, and not merely foreman, there are books to
be kept; so he must be a good accountant, and a good caterer, and
always have his weather eye lifting, and keeping a long look-out for
probable changes in the markets.

But things had prospered well at Burley New Station.  One chief
reason of this was that the seasons had been good, and that there was
every prospect that the colony of Queensland was to be one of the
most respected and favourite in the little island.

For most of his information on the management of sheep, Archie and
his companions were indebted to the head stockman, Gentleman Craig.
He had indeed been a Godsend, and proved himself a blessing to the
station.  It is but fair to add that he had sacredly and sternly kept
the vow he had registered that night.

He did not deny that it had been difficult for him to do so; in fact
he often referred to his own weakness when talking to Archie, whose
education made him a great favourite and the constant companion of
Craig.

"But you don't feel any the worse for having completely changed your
habits, do you?" said Archie one day.

Craig's reply was a remarkable one, and one that should be borne in
mind by those teetotallers who look upon inebriety as simply a
species of moral aberration, and utterly ignore the physiology of the
disease.

"To tell you the truth, Mr. Broadbent, I am both better and worse.  I
am better physically; I am in harder, more robust, muscular health;
I'm as strong in the arms as a kicking kangaroo.  I eat well, I sleep
fairly well, and am fit in every way.  But I feel as if I had passed
through the vale of the shadow of death, and it had left some of its
darkness on and in my soul.  I feel as if the cure had mentally taken
a deal out of me; and when I meet, at Brisbane or other towns, men
who offer me drink I feel mean and downcast, because I have to refuse
it, and because I dared not even take it as food and medicine.  No
one can give up habits of life that have become second nature without
mental injury, if not bodily.  And I'm more and more convinced every
month that intemperance is a disease of periodicity, just like gout
and rheumatism."

"You have cravings at certain times, then?"