When did Aurora sleep? Melusine alone could have known. We heard the
birds awakening at the first coming of dawn. The shrill piping of
finches and sparrows succeeded the plaintive note of the nightingale. I
wonder whether I should hear the birds wake on the morrow.

I realized that the time had come. It was contrary to etiquette, but I
said to Aurora:

"Forgive me for leaving you. I'm very tired." There was a tinge of
reproach in the look she gave me. I felt she was thinking that Melusine
was _never_ tired.

"If she only knew!" I said to myself. And for an instant I was almost
tempted to tell her everything.

I went back to my room and left it a few moments later, taking care to
go out through the Great Court, for fear lest she might see me from her
window.

It was not yet five o'clock when I reached the La Meilleraie bridge.
That hour's respite seemed to me an eternity of bliss. Never had earth
seemed so fair and life so dear as in those moments which I thought
might very well be my last.

I knew that Hagen was one of the finest swordsmen in the garrison. He
was also a crack pistol shot, while I--well, my education had been
confined to firing off two, perhaps three, dozen cartridges with a
revolver during my training periods as an officer of the reserve.

Leaning on the parapet I watched the Melna dashing over the boulders far
below me. Little silvery trout darted up out of the foaming water, and
reminded me of my trout-fishing days, ten years before, in the Ossau
stream, between Laruns and Pont de BÃ©on.

Where was this river going? To join the Aller, which meets the Weser,
which flows into the North Sea, which joins the Channel, which is an arm
of the Atlantic, which receives the waters of the Adour, into which the
river of Pan, swollen by the Ossau stream, runs close by the blue hamlet
of Peyrehorade. Little German trout, little French trout. Foolish,
childish thoughts which carry the mind of a man facing death back
through the course of his life, and bridge the gulf between distant
epochs.

"I am sorry to have kept you waiting, Herr Professor. But it's not yet
quite six o'clock."

Hagen! I hadn't seen him come. I'd almost forgotten him, in fact.

We both bowed.

"I've brought with me," he explained, "everything required for a meeting
without seconds."

He produced a fountain-pen and some paper.

"Revolvers being the weapon selected," he said, "I've brought mine. We
can draw lots if you like, but I think it's hardly necessary. The model
is the same. Now will you be good enough to sign this?"

He had taken the precaution of drawing up a statement, in my name and
his, wherein the two adversaries testified in advance that everything
had been quite fair and regular.

"In case there's an accident, this will save the survivor a good deal of
trouble," he thought fit to explain.

Officialism could hardly go further. All the same I was curious to know
how the signal was to be given. I couldn't help asking him.

He smiled, a smile full of self-satisfaction.

"I've seen to that all right," he replied.

With these words he opened a parcel containing an alarm-clock.

"I've set the alarm for ten minutes past six," he said. "You can test
it, if you like. When it goes off we will fire, changing places if we
like. It's all put down in the statement."

I couldn't say whether tragedy or absurdity was the more conspicuous
feature of the proceedings.

Hagen paced out the distance.

"Eight, nine, ten. Herr Professor, you're a little taller than I. Will
you pace it out too, and if you like, we'll take the mean."

"It doesn't matter," I said. "This is all right for me."

He bowed and drew his revolver from his pocket.