"The Grand Duke, frowning slightly, beckoned to the lackey standing
behind him.

"'What's that noise?' he asked in a low tone. 'Go and stop it.'

"The man had not returned in a quarter of an hour, but the noise did not
cease.

"'Here, Kessel,' cried the Grand Duke, half annoyed, half amused, 'try
and find out what's going on above our heads. Excuse me, gentlemen,' he
said, turning to our guests.

"Kessel went. Five minutes later he came back, very red. The noise had
stopped.

"'Well!' said the Grand Duke, what was it?'

"Kessel was still silent.

"'Look here, Major,' Frederick went on, beginning to lose patience. 'You
can't have discovered a plot up there, I presume. I must ask you to
reassure my guests. What was the matter?'

"'Builders, your Highness,' murmured Kessel.

"'Builders! at this hour! Today of all days! That's too much of a good
thing. What on earth are they doing? Come, Herr von Kessel, tell me,
please!'

"'They are walling up the yellow corridor,' the officer managed to get
out.

"There was a frigid silence. The yellow corridor was that which
connected the apartments of the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg.

"Frederick-Augustus is a man of resource, _ami_. I realized it that
evening and genuinely admired him when, tapping his forehead
significantly, as much as to say, 'Of course! I'd forgotten,' he turned
to a steward and said:

"'Just see that those good fellows are well looked after. They'll have
to work all night.'

"I didn't mind. You see I was pleased with myself, for I felt there was
something of admiration in the sly look he gave me, a look that seemed
to say:

"'And now, you and I must have it out.'"

Aurora had stopped. For a few minutes silence reigned. Then Melusine
went to the window and swiftly drew back the curtains. We saw it was
already light.

I looked at the Grand Duchess, lost in reverie, elbow on knee and chin
in hand. Her beautiful features and clear skin betrayed not the
slightest sign of her night-long vigil.

The chilly dawn found Aurora even more beautiful than the glowing dusk
had left her.




VII


OCCASIONALLY, perhaps once or twice a week, the Grand Duchess preferred
to be alone, and on these evenings I used to resign myself to work.

My study of the KÃ¶nigsmark had been virtually abandoned. I no longer
found much pleasure in disturbing that ancient dust now that fate had
summoned me to witness another drama, the actors in which lived and
moved around me, and spoke to me every day.

There had been a great storm on a certain July evening which Aurora's
pleasure doomed me to spend alone. Through the window, open to the
lowering night sky, I heard the trees dripping. I was working in an
extremely half-hearted manner, my mind straying from the tragedy of the
_Herrenhausen_ to the lands whither the Tumene princess's story had
wafted me. Indeed, it was a piece of pure luck that thrust before my
eyes the supremely important document of which I must now speak.

I told you some time back, with details which must have seemed tedious,
of the dossier compiled by the Queen of Prussia with a view to the
rehabilitation of her mother Sophie-Dorothea. That evening, after
analysing two or three documents of secondary importance, I came to
another, marked S.2--No. 87.

It consisted of two large pages covered with writing in German
characters, crowded closely together. My listlessness vanished after the
first few lines. My mind sprang to attention, for I realized that I had
at last got hold of something decisive.