Fr√§ulein von Graffenfried rushed to the Grand Duchess, who had fallen
back, rigid, on the sofa. Her eyelids were half closed. I read
inexpressible terror in the look she gave me.

"Mad! Mad!" she screamed again. "He's at Sangha. I have his letters.
Sangha!"

"At Sangha! At Sangha!" the heartrending voice rang out again.

"I've only done what I thought was my duty," I murmured to Melusine,
helping her to get her mistress to inhale the little blue casket.

The kind creature gave me a look charged with meaning, as much as to
say: "I know it, you've no need to apologize."

"Don't be alarmed," she said in an undertone. "Her brain fever has left
her extremely sensitive. And you must admit there's good reason on this
occasion. Look, she's coming round."

Aurora was opening her startled eyes. She saw us two bending over her
and memory came back. There must have been an expression of terrible
concern in our faces, for she smiled and held out a hand which I covered
with kisses.

"Forgive me, children, for giving you such a fright. Good Melusine,
always at her post when she's wanted! And you, dear friend, my thanks."

"You are not angry with me?" I pleaded.

She smiled and shook her head, giving me for answer the Russian saying:

"_Do the rooks hate the sun for showing up the sportsman's gun?_"

She added:

"Melusine, go and tell them that he'll stay to lunch."

To be present at Aurora's table was a signal honour. Melusine alone had
been thought worthy of it hitherto. It was not long before I learnt to
my cost how great the honour was. Meanwhile I only saw in it further
proof of the importance of my revelation.

One would have expected the meal to suffer from the effects of recent
events. It did not suffer in the least, and though Aurora's spirits
seemed a little forced, she was gay throughout. She talked about other
things the whole time. I admired her self-possession all the more,
because my secret was enough to have destroyed it altogether. In that
hour, big with the burden of coming events, I knew the joy of realizing
how indispensable I had become to the haughty princess, who had seemed
to ignore my very existence only five short months before.

When the coffee came Melusine rose.

"Where are you going?" the Grand Duchess inquired.

"To say that you won't be going calling this afternoon," she replied.

"Shan't I?" said Aurora, smiling. "I'm not so overcome as all that. Just
go and say that the car is to be ready at four instead of five."

"Four?"

"Yes. I want a few hours' rest before coming to fetch you at midnight,"
she said, turning to me.

Melusine and I stared at her.

"Does that surprise you?" she continued. "Do you call what you have just
told me important or not? Now this is what _I_ think. One person can
suffer from a delusion. It's highly improbable that two will. At
midnight, my friend, I shall knock at your door. Then you will have an
opportunity of proving your knowledge of secret springs. You understand,
now? Now, Melusine, go and order the car for four o'clock. I've twice
postponed my call on the good Burgomaster's wife, and I mustn't break my
word a third time."

There was so much authority in this order that Melusine went, casting a
long, imploring glance in my direction.

"Poor little girl," said the Grand Duchess. "That look gives me into
your care. Midnight, you understand, without fail."

"Madame," I said firmly, "I'll do anything your Highness wishes. I
understand your resolution. Indeed, I can only approve it. May I just
make two remarks? First, that it would be much better for me to come and
fetch you rather than that you should run the risk of meeting some one
in the corridors of the castle. In the second place, you should know
that the watch make their rounds at midnight. They may be a little early
tonight, and it is most advisable to avoid any chance of being disturbed
in so delicate an enterprise as ours."