Nothing could be heard but the muffled tramping which wound along
indefinitely behind me. The trees made a dark dome above our heads.
Every now and then we looked up as we came to a clearing, but the sky
was as dark as the vault of foliage.

"Where is Lieutenant Vignerte?"

"At the head, sir."

A hand was placed on my shoulder. It was Vignerte's.

Since our Captain left us after Craonne to command a battalion of
another regiment, Raoul Vignerte, senior to me in the service, had been
in command of the company. He was a man of twenty-five, slight, with a
splendid dark head. Two months of war had done more than ten years of
peace could have done to draw us together. We did now know each other
before August, 1914, yet we had common memories of those bygone days. I
came from BÃ©arn, he from Landes. I had taken German at the Sorbonne.
He, two years later, had taken history. Alternately jovial and absorbed,
he was always a wonderful company commander. Occasionally the men found
him a trifle distant, irresponsible, perhaps, but they liked his calm,
soldierly bearing, his never-failing interest in their welfare. Vignerte
did not sleep with the men, as I did. But they knew that if he kept his
dug-out to himself it was invariably the most dilapidated, straw-less,
and exposed he could find.

As far as I was concerned, he left nothing undone to make me forget
that, though he was two years younger than myself, he was my superior
officer. On my side, glad though I was to have such a comrade to obey, I
was even more glad to escape all the responsibilities of a company
commander. Strength-returns, discussions with the sergeant-major and the
quartermaster, company accounts (though these are reduced to a minimum
in the field), would never have been much to my liking. Vignerte, who
had not slept one hour a night during the retreat, who had been the last
to leave Guise in flames and the first to enter Ville-aux-Bois in ruins,
this same Vignerte dealt with the horrible mass of detail with
methodical vigour. Every now and then when I saw this charming
intellectual wholly absorbed in such sordid duties, I would think: What
distraction is he seeking? From what black thoughts is he fleeing?...
Then, as if fearing detection, he would come to me with some joke and
that day the regiment would know no one more merry and careless.

This evening he was in his dark mood. And why not, with the
responsibility of introducing two hundred and fifty men to a new sector?
Besides, he might have orders of which I did not yet know.

"Where are we?" he asked.

"Ten minutes more to battalion headquarters," I replied. And, lowering
my voice, I queried: "Any news?"

"I believe one company of the battalion is to carry out some operation.
But it's not our turn. Besides, I'm going to remain at headquarters. You
can carry out the relief without me. I shall come down with the orders
a quarter of an hour afterwards."

Blanc-Sablon was indeed a lugubrious spot. On one wall of a ravine rose
its shell-riven dwarf forest, with wooded horns and great caves of
shadow, while away in front a road, barricaded with tree-trunks,
stretched to the village, a few hundred yards off, occupied by the
enemy.

The men, hitherto silent, could no longer restrain a hasty comment.

"Good Lord! What a show! Here's a pretty place for you! We always strike
a hole like this!"

"Silence!"

In some respects taking over is not unlike the figure of a cotillon. The
Company-Commander, each section officer, corporal and man must
immediately seek out his opposite number, the company-commander, section
officer, corporal or man whose place he has to take.

It was all over in five minutes, soundlessly, of course, or hostile
artillery would soon have had this human mass, half of it without cover
of any kind, under fire and reduced to pulp.

Silence, comparatively easy to obtain from the incoming party, was
nothing like so easy to exact from the departing host. The pleasant
prospects of approaching sleep under cover and a few days' "rest" behind
the lines loosened their tongues. They could not resist a few words of
advice to their successors:

"I'd advise you to keep clear of that loophole. There's a gent over
there who doesn't love me. I have had three pots at him today. If he
isn't dead he will be wanting his turn. And then ..."

--"SILENCE!"