“I don’t know, Alice—when one has a case like this which the law would
not touch.”

“Will not the law touch it?”

“I don’t know. I am going to town to-morrow to find out if there is not
some way in which he may be held under the law. As for Esther, I wish
she might be sent away from this place—away from his hateful influence
and pestiferous power.”

“Ah, could she get away from it? Is there any place where it might not
follow her? Mark, wouldn’t it be well for you to see Mrs. McCleary?
Surely she could not sanction such possession of her daughter.”

“That is a good idea, Alice. I will go to see her to-day—now. If there’s
a heart in that woman I’ll try to find it. This is a mission for which
you are better suited, but in your nervous state it may be more than you
could do.”

“I would rather trust you,” Alice replied.

Mark rapped at Mrs. McCleary’s door a half hour later, and asked the
child who admitted him if he might see her mother.

“Well, well! Oi declare, Mr. Mark, Oi’m delighted if you’ve found toime
an’ inclination to give us a little of yer society,” cried Mrs.
McCleary, coming forward. “Oi told Esther Oi didn’t see why some of the
neighbors didn’t call oftener. We’re always glad to see ’em. And how is
Alice, and that noice sister, and the perty girl with her? Oi am shure
Alice must enjoy their company so much.” As she paused to take breath,
Mark interposed.

“We do both enjoy them very much. But where is Esther, Mrs. McCleary?”

“Esther? O, she is giving the children their baths. Oi have to leave all
such work to her now. But she’ll be through varry soon, Oi’m shure. Just
help yourself to some of them plums on the table, Misther Mark.”

“Thank you. They are very nice, and I always enjoy eating them. This
fruit makes up to us for the lack of apples and other fruits of the
East, which we have not started here yet. Nature is compensative. But I
want to talk to you, Mrs. McCleary, rather than Esther, and upon a
somewhat delicate subject.”

“Yes?” Mrs. McCleary’s voice slid upward interrogatively. “Oi waant ter
know.”

“Do you know the extent of Professor Russell’s power over your
daughter?”

“Why, to be shure, Mr. Cramer. Who should know, if not her mother?”

“And do you approve of his compelling her to walk in the fields at
night? Believe me, Mrs. McCleary, I ask this from no idle motive. I am
interested in your daughter’s welfare and good name.”

“He compel her? Professor Russell compel her? Why, ye’re crazy, Mark
Cramer!” The woman’s Irish temper was rising.

“But it is true she has gotten up in the night and wandered away, alone,
is it not?”

“It is thrue Esther has walked in her shlape once or twice.”

“But is he not the cause, when she goes to meet him?”

“Mr. Cramer, what d’ye mean, insinuating such things of my Esther?”

“Mrs. McCleary, this is a painful revelation I must make you. But I know
that this has occurred, at least once, and I know that Esther was
constrained to go to this meeting by other power than her volition.”

“Oi don’t belave ye, Mark Cramer,” said the now thoroughly angry woman.
“Oi don’t know what yer object is in coming here and defaming moy poor
girrl. Oi don’t belave Professor Russell would use any power he has to
hurt moy child’s good name. It’s all along of yer prejudice of the maan,
that yer thryin’ to make trouble.”

“But, Mrs. McCleary, listen to me, I beg of you, for Esther’s sake. You
don’t want me to believe that Esther would go of her own free will to
such an appointment?”

“If she has gone, it’s the sperits as has led her. And Oi can’t belave
they would harm a hair of her head, aither. When the sperits used to
come here first, McCleary used to say, ‘Ye’ll lose all yer friends,
Miranda, av ye toike ony sthock in these sperits,’ and Oi sez, sez Oi,
‘If moy friends can’t sthand the sperits, they’re not moy friends at
all, an’ I can get along without thim.’”

Mrs. McCleary was thoroughly aroused, and her hands trembled as she
clasped the arms of her rocking-chair.