II
TIBBY’S EYES


As for Tibby’s eyes, no one had been able to decide upon the exact color
of them. On warm, sunshiny afternoons, when Tibby yawned in a swinging
hammock on the back veranda and the pupils were small and contracted,
they appeared of a cerulean hue, warm and languorous. On cloudy days,
when the sky was dark and lowering, Tibby’s eyes were gray and
forbidding. But when a tempest of rage shook her pliant figure her eyes
sparkled black as coal from the mines. Her brothers called them cat’s
eyes, not only because the name Tibby was a contraction of the more
severe Tabitha of her christening, but from the ever-varying, changing
light which shone in their restless depths, which now dilated until the
least rim of color was visible, now contracted like those of a purring
kitten.

Tibby had not to depend upon the beauty of her opalescent eyes for
recognition, for nature had dealt most generously with her, giving her
regular features, and so mixing and intermingling the types of brunette
and blonde in her physique that no one could determine in which class to
catalogue her. The delicious glint of the sun in her brown hair, the
rich waves of carmine that tinged and receded from her cheeks, the
arched black brows which defined themselves so conspicuously against the
shining whiteness of her forehead were contradictions when compared, but
formed a _tout ensemble_ most charming.

It appeared, too, that Tibby’s nature was as contradictory. Wayward and
wilful as she was at times, at others she appeared of angelic sweetness,
and the soft, innocent depths of those slumberous blue eyes captivated
the hearts of all who met her, and made them swear no evil could exist
in her.

And now while Tibby, like her feline namesake, purrs most delusively in
the midst of her aesthetic surroundings, and her pink-tinted fingers
effectually conceal any hidden claws, her mind reviews a scene but three
weeks behind the present.

She sees an old-fashioned, wood-colored farm-house with broad lawn, in
which are bright beds of dear old-fashioned flowers, marigolds and
petunias, bachelor buttons and scarlet poppies; and she sees herself in
calico gown and big sunbonnet standing under the old elm, in listening
attitude, while a shrill, chirruping note sounds in her ear.

“Hello, Tib, what’s up?” shouts a boyish voice, and a stout-limbed,
bare-footed lad bounds down the path toward her.

“Hush!” she says. “Ah, you have frightened it away! It was singing in
the old elm and I hoped to find it. It’s a tree-toad, isn’t it? Did you
ever see one, Tom?”

“Hundreds of ’em,” replies the boy contemptuously.

“What do they look like, Tom? Are they green?”

“They’re mostly the color of the thing they’re on, I reckon,” says the
oracle. “Sometimes they’re like the bark of the trees or fence, and then
again they’re sort of green if they’re on the grass.”

“Humph! You don’t expect me to believe such a fish story as that, do
you?” replies Tibby scornfully, drawing up her straight, slim figure
with dignity. “As if any mortal thing could change its color! As well
might the leopard change his spots,” she continues as her mind reverts
to the Scripture lesson of the preceding Sabbath.

“That’s all you know about it! They’re thicker ’n spatter down in the
lane, an’ I guess I know what I’m telling you! Why, Tibby, they’re like
your eyes. A minute ago they were blue, now they’re yeller. Mother says
your eyes make her fidgety, they’re so changeable.” And Tom laughed
gleefully.

“Did she, Tom; when?”

“Yisterday. I heard her tell pop. And say, Tibby, if you don’t go down
cellar and do that churnin’, she’ll make it hot for you. She says you
allus slip off on churnin’ days.”

“It’s already done, Mr. Tom. I did it before I came out here. But
mother’ll think I haven’t, and won’t she have a conniption fit?”

Again the twain laugh.

“Say, Tom, wouldn’t you like to go away somewheres, where folks are
different—into the city, or somewhere? It’s deadly dull here, an’ then
mother’s so cross—”

“I dunno, pop’s all right if _she_ didn’t put him up to pitch into us.”
Tom gives his trousers a jerk, and digs his bare toes into the grass.
“An’ she tells him you’re wilful and headstrong as fury.”