The Secretary of State leaned back in his chair and studied the young
man before him. “Sit down, Mr. Topham,” he said at last.

Topham sat down. He was a good-looking young fellow, soldierly and
straight as a ramrod, but without the stiffness that usually goes
with a military carriage. His tanned face and, in fact, his whole
bearing spoke of an out-door life--probably a life on the sea. Such an
occupation was also indicated by his taciturnity, for he said nothing,
though the secretary waited long, as if to give him a chance to speak.

Finally the secretary seemed satisfied. “Mr. Topham,” he said, “I
have asked you to call on me for a purpose not connected, so far as I
see at present, with your mission to Japan. Concerning that, I have
nothing to add to the instructions already given you. Your reports
will, of course, be to the Secretary of the Navy and you will of course
not forget that your duties as naval attaché to our embassy at Tokio
include the sending of any political information you may be able to
pick up, in addition to such naval and military details as you may
consider of importance. You speak Japanese, I believe?”

Topham bowed. “A little,” he replied, modestly.

“More than a little, I understand,” corrected the Secretary. “Doubtless
you will find your knowledge of great advantage to you in your work. It
is not of this, however, but of something quite different that I wish
to speak.”

The Secretary paused, as if to give the young man a chance, but the
latter said nothing. He merely waited courteously until the Secretary
resumed.

“Have you any special preference as to your route to Japan?” he asked.

Topham shook his head. “Very little,” he answered. “I have scarcely had
time. I supposed vaguely that I should go by San Francisco, because
that was the most direct route, but it makes no difference to me.”

“I should like you to go by Europe and the Suez Canal. Have you any
personal reason for desiring to go by Berlin?”

“Berlin? I don’t know! Er--Isn’t Mr. Rutile secretary of embassy
there?”

The secretary’s eyebrows went up a trifle. “Yes!” he answered. To
Topham his voice sounded a little sharp.

“He was at Annapolis with me, but resigned shortly after being
graduated. We were always chums and I should be very glad to see him
again.”

“Very well! That will serve as an excellent excuse for your choice of
route. Kindly indicate to Admiral Brownson of the Bureau of Navigation
your desire to proceed by way of Berlin, and he will issue the
necessary orders. You will find that these will direct you to proceed
with due diligence via Berlin to Brindisi, where you will join the U.
S. S. Nevada as watch officer, relieving Lieutenant Shoreham, who is to
be invalided home. You will proceed on the Nevada to Manila, where you
will be detached, and will proceed at once to Tokio.”

The Secretary paused and picked a long official document before him.
“You might mention your plans to any officer or others whom you chance
to meet. I wish your choice of route to appear as natural as possible.
You understand?”

Topham bowed. “I understand, sir,” he replied.

“Very good. Now, Mr. Topham, permit me to ask whether your mention
of Mr. Rutile just now was purely accidental or whether you had any
information that I wanted you to take a confidential message to him.”

Topham laughed. “Do you really?” he asked. “No! Mr. Secretary! I had no
idea or information to that effect. It was altogether a coincidence, I
assure you.”

“Ah! I was beginning to wonder if there was a leak in my office. Well!
Mr. Topham, I wish you would take this packet and deliver it with
your own hands in private to Mr. Rutile. You must not let even the
ambassador know that you are carrying documents of any kind. No one is
to know, except Mr. Rutile and yourself. You understand?”

“Surely, sir.”

“Very good. Can you leave for New York tonight?”

“Certainly, sir.”

“Please do so! I am sorry to curtail your stay in Washington, but
there is no time to lose. Your passage has been taken on the steamer
Marlatic, which leaves for Hamburg tomorrow morning. Make all the speed
you can to Brindisi, remembering, however, that it is better to lose a
day or two than by any undue haste to cast doubt on the credibility of
your visit to Berlin. The Nevada will wait for you, though she is badly
needed at Manila.”

“I understand, sir!”

The secretary cleared his throat. “You will understand, Mr. Topham,” he
went on, “that I do not make a messenger out of you without good cause.
It is very important that these documents should reach Mr. Rutile
promptly and secretly. Probably you will make the trip without the
least misadventure. Remember, however, that there are people who would
be exceedingly anxious to get a look at these papers if they should
learn of their existence. I cannot warn you of them specifically,
because I do not know who they are. We have tried to keep secret
the fact that any papers are being sent, and this is one reason for
choosing you. I think we have succeeded, but one can never tell. If the
fact has gotten out attempts may be made to take the papers from you
either by fraud or violence. I do not know how far the people who want
them would go in their efforts to rob you, but it is quite possible
that they might go to the limit. Be warned, therefore, and be prepared
to frustrate any attempt of any sort whatever. You understand, Mr.
Topham?”

Topham stood up. “I think so, sir,” he replied.

“Very good. Here is the packet.” The Secretary passed it over. “That is
all, Mr. Topham. Good luck.” He rose, and held out his hand.

Topham bowed and took his departure. Obedient to the secretary’s
instructions he went along the corridor to the offices of the Bureau
of Navigation of the Navy Department, and explained to the admiral
in charge his desire to go via Berlin. Evidently the affair was cut
and dried, for his orders were made out and placed in his hands in an
amazingly few minutes.

While he waited for them he mentioned to several navy friends the route
that he would take and his reasons for desiring it, and made inquiries
concerning the officer whom he was to relieve. Later, when, orders in
hand, he made his way to the entrance of the building he met an old
newspaper friend, to whom he casually mentioned his prospective journey.

Under the big portico he stopped and drew a long breath. Events had
moved so fast in the last few hours that he was almost bewildered.
He had only reached Washington about noon on that same day, having
been detached from his ship at Hampton Roads. On his arrival, he had
been questioned concerning his reported acquaintance with the Japanese
language, and had been notified to prepare to leave at once for Tokio
as naval attaché to the embassy there. He had received detailed
instructions, both written and oral, as to the duties of his post; and
then had been sent to the Secretary of State for further confidential
instructions which had taken the shape described.

His watch showed that barely five hours had elapsed since he had
entered the building, with no thought either of Japan or Berlin in his
mind. And now he was practically en route for both. The rapidity of the
thing made his head swim. “Almost like war times,” he muttered. “Great
Scott! I wonder if we really are going to have trouble with the Japs!”

With a shrug of his shoulders he dismissed the matter from his mind. It
was no business of his for the moment at least. Again he looked at his
watch. “Half-past five o’clock,” he muttered, hesitating.

He need not leave for New York before midnight, and the temptation was
strong upon him to spend a few hours in looking up the friends he had
made during his tour of duty at the Capital City two years before. They
were very good friends, many of them, and he would enjoy meeting them.

Only one thing made him pause and that was the thought of Lillian
Byrd--if she still were Lillian Byrd. She had played with him, laughed
at him, and tossed him over for a wealthier man. When she did so, he
had asked for sea duty and had gotten it. He believed that the two
years he had spent afloat had healed the wound, and yet he hesitated to
risk testing it. Everything and every one he would see would remind him
of the days when he lived in a fool’s paradise. Why should he torture
himself with the vain recollection. He would not! He would take the
next train for New York and leave Washington with its friends, foes,
and sweethearts behind him.

An hour later he was speeding northward.




CHAPTER II


Topham was on board the Marlatic in good time the next morning.

He found himself in the midst of a jolly laughing throng that crowded
and pushed and hugged and kissed and wept a little sometimes, but that
the most part gave itself up to a perpetual chattering, like a flock
of magpies--with more noise but with little more sense. All sorts of
people were there, from the brandnew bride on her honeymoon to the
gray old lady who was taking her granddaughter abroad; from the Cook’s
tourist to the blasé young man who talked airily about crossing the
“pond” and the grumpy globe trotter who hated the noise and confusion
with his whole heart.

Topham leaned on the rail of the hurricane deck and watched the crowd
idly. Somehow he felt lonely. Everybody else had friends; he seemed
alone in having no one to see him off. It struck him suddenly that his
life was a very lonely one. If Lillian Byrd had not proved faithless--

His ranging eyes fell upon a girl who was just coming up the plank in
the wake of a granite-faced chaperone, and the current of his thoughts
snapped short off. She was young, scarcely more than twenty, he judged,
but there was something about her--he scarcely knew what--that set his
pulses to pounding. With his whole strength he stared, and, as though
drawn by his glance, the girl suddenly lifted her face and looked
directly at him.

For an instant his heart stood still, then raced as it had never raced
before, not even when Lillian Byrd had smiled at him in days gone by.

Never had he seen such eyes. They held him, enthralled him, with a
magic that went beyond any reasoned process of the human brain. They
seemed to fill the girl’s whole face--to fill it so that Topham thought
he did not notice its other features; though later, he found that he
could picture its every detail--the great masses of red-black hair; the
clear dusky skin with a rose hiding in each cheek; the nose, chin, and
teeth in keeping--not regular, not perfect according to canons of art,
but compelling; a face for which men die.

Recklessly the navy officer stared--stared till the red flamed in the
girl’s cheek, and she stumbled, her trembling fingers loosing their
hold upon the rail.

She must have said something, though Topham could not hear her, for the
hard-faced chaperone turned and caught her arm. Topham saw her shake
her head in negation to some question. The next instant she looked up
once more. But not as before! Coldly her glance swept Topham’s face, as
coldly as if he did not exist. Then, before he could even attempt to
catch her eyes, she had stepped upon the deck and was hidden from his
view.

Topham drew his breath gaspingly. He had been holding it for quite a
minute, unknowingly. His thoughts ran riot. Who was she? Who was she?
What was her race, her state, her name? Her face bespoke a southern
parentage; the blood that burned beneath it cried aloud of tropic heat.
But her blue eyes were of the north. And the chaperone by her side
could be nothing else than German--a veritable grenadier.

Certainly they were people of distinction in their own land--probably
in any land. The purser might know. He would go and ask.

The purser was affable but tremendously busy. Yes, he knew the lady.
She had crossed on the Marlatic a few weeks before. She was a Senorita
Elsa Ferreira, a Brazilian lady who was connected with a famous German
family. The lady with her was the Baroness Ostersacken. If Mr. Topham
wanted any more information, he would endeavor to oblige him later on.
At the present moment, however, in the hurry of departure, he--

Topham thanked him and went on deck, feeling the throb of the propeller
beneath his feet as he did so. The steamer was in midstream heading
toward the lower bay and the open sea.

For an hour or more Topham paced the deck hoping in vain for another
sight of the girl who had so fascinated him. The wind was blowing
strongly, and as the Marlatic approached Sandy Hook, she began to pitch
with, the motion of the Atlantic rollers, and her passengers began to
disappear. When she crossed the bar all but a handful had deserted the
decks. Many seats were vacant when the gong rang for luncheon, and as
Miss Ferreira did not appear, Topham began to fear that she was a poor
sailor who would keep her cabin all throughout the voyage.

All afternoon he paced the deck despite the increasing unpleasantness
of the weather. Darkness fell early and when he came up from dinner and
from a tour of the main saloon without seeing anything of the girl, he
was forced to abandon hope of finding her that night.

As he leaned grumpily over the rail watching the dim white caps that
chased each other athwart the course of the ship, one of the few
passengers on deck came and leaned by his side.

“It makes rough, eh! senor?” said the man. “We shall have storm? What
you think?”

At the soft Spanish accent, Topham looked quickly up and recognized a
Spanish-looking personage whom he remembered having seen crossing the
gang plank.

“Oh! no!” he replied, lightly. “I think not. It’s damp and cold and
unpleasant, but not stormy. Tomorrow will probably be clear.”

“That is good. I no like the storm. It is bad for the--the stomach,
do you say, senor? I no get sick, but I feel sorry for the others.”
He took out a package of cigarettes and offered them to Topham. “You
smoke, senor?” he asked.

Cigarettes were not Topham’s failing, but he helped himself
nevertheless. He was lonely and wanted companionship. Besides, the man
seemed to be a Spanish-American and anything from Spanish-America had
a special charm for Topham since he had heard that Miss Ferreira was
from that part of the world.

For a few moments the two men puffed in silence, chatting of
indifferent subjects. Then the ship pitched more heavily than usual and
the other gulped.

“I--I no get sick,” he protested. “I am old sailor. But I--I think
I eat something for dinner that not agree with me. I--I think I go
below.” He slouched heavily away.

Topham did not laugh. With astonishment he had suddenly discovered
that he too was feeling qualmy. The sensation was so novel, so utterly
unlooked for, so hatefully amazing that he almost laughed.

“By Jove!” he exclaimed. “I’m feeling queer myself. I didn’t know that
any sea could make me sick, but--Good Lord!”

The sensations had grown stronger with unexampled rapidity. In almost
a moment they became acute. A fog came before his eyes and his senses
actually reeled. Desperately he clung to the rail, feeling certain that
he should fall if his grip loosened.

How long he stood there more than half unconscious he never knew. He
was roused by a woman’s voice, speaking excitedly.

“But he is ill! He is very ill! Quick! catch him!”

Dimly he heard a faint rush of feet; then an arm was slipped under his.
“This way, senor,” pleaded a voice--a very soft, musical voice. “Just a
step--just a step. Now sit down! There!”

Guided by some one’s arm Topham reeled for an immeasurable distance.
Then he fell also immeasurably. Finally, finding himself in a chair he
closed his eyes.

Only a few seconds later, it seemed, he opened them again and found
himself stretched in a steamer chair. His head felt queer and his
stomach shaky. As he gazed stupidly around, a woman who was bending
over him straightened up.

“It’s all right!” said the voice. “He’s coming to.”

Instinctively Topham struggled to his feet despite the girl’s protests.
He could see little more than her figure in the semi-darkness, but he
nevertheless felt sure that it was she. “Miss Ferreira!” he murmured.

“Oh! you are better! senor! I am glad.” Her English was perfect except
for a soft Castilian burr.

Topham strove to answer, and succeeded better than he hoped. “Yes! I’m
better. Thanks to you! senorita. Heavens, I don’t know what got into
me! I haven’t been seasick since--since--. Is this your chair?”

“Yes! But do not leave it, I beg. I had just come on deck when I
noticed that you were ill. Perhaps you ate something for dinner that
disagreed with you.”

“Perhaps!” ruefully. “That’s the usual excuse for getting seasick, you
know. However--Good Heavens!”

Topham’s heart almost stopped beating. He whipped his hand into his
inner coat pocket and found--nothing! Desperately he snatched at
another pocket--and another!

With distended eyes the girl stared at him. “You have lost something,
senor?” she queried.

“Lost! Lost! Good Heavens, I--” Suddenly Topham dropped his hands and
laughed aloud. “Oh! What an idiot I am!” he cried. “No! I haven’t lost
anything, senorita. I must be daffy. I was looking for something,
forgetting that I had put it away for safe-keeping.”




CHAPTER III


Topham woke the next day with a splitting headache and a slight but
persistent nausea--about what might have been expected after his
experience of the night before. The sea had gone down considerably and
though the steamer still rolled somewhat, it no longer pitched to any
degree that should have been in the least disquieting to an at all
seasoned stomach. So Topham rolled out of bed and got on deck as soon
as possible. The fresh air slowly restored him to his normal condition
and by noon little remained to remind him of his humiliating experience.

He saw nothing of Senorita Ferreira, and though he kept a continual
hopeful watch for her, he yet did not altogether regret her absence as
it gave him a chance to think things out.

All the forenoon he lay in his steamer chair drinking in the sea-air
and pondering the situation. In some points his illness had been unlike
any seasickness he had ever heard of; though not entirely dissimilar
to some cases of which he had heard. He felt certain that it was not
an entirely natural illness, but was very uncertain whether it had
resulted from an accidental bane in something he had eaten or whether
he had been deliberately drugged. If he had been drugged, it could have
been done with no other purpose than to rob him of the packet confided
to him by the Secretary of State. He blessed the forethought that had
led him to get the purser to lock it up in the ship’s safe. Struck by a
sudden idea he went below and examined his baggage, but could discover
no sign that it had been searched.

The incident, whether resulting from accident or design, brought home
to him the seriousness of his errand. If he had really been the victim
of a deliberate attempt at robbery, it proved that the cause of his
journey to Berlin was no secret and that daring and unscrupulous foes
were watching him. He had fooled them once, but the voyage was scarcely
begun, and it was not conceivable that they would not follow up the
attack. Topham was as brave as most men, but he felt himself at a
serious disadvantage; his enemies knew him--probably knew all about
him--and he knew nothing of them, neither their age nor their sex nor
their number.

It behooved him to find them out if possible. Naturally his first
thought was of the soft-spoken Spanish-American who had offered him a
cigarette. What was in that cigarette, he wondered. Was anything in
it? Had he really been unconscious and if so, for how long? Had he
been practically so while he stood clutching the rail or had he only
become so after he had been helped to the chair by Senorita Ferreira?
Was she in the plot--if there was a plot? He could contemplate this
last possibility calmly, for it never occurred to him to impute moral
turpitude to those whose interests ran counter to his in a game of high
politics such as this seemed to be.

Think as he might, however, he could not answer any of the questions
that were puzzling him. All he could do was for the situation to
develop itself. He would speak to the Spaniard, but he knew that he
could hope to gain little by doing so. That gentleman, he was sure,
would be provided with an unimpeachable defense.

As for Senorita Ferreira--Well! he had no real reason to suspect
her--or anyone else, for that matter. Probably, indeed, she had come up
in time to frighten off his real assailant.

“All’s well that ends well,” he decided, finally. “If my Dago friend
really did drug me to get the packet, he got decidedly left. On the
other hand, I’ve got an opening with the girl. I’ll take her innocence
for granted till I see mighty good reason to do otherwise. I wonder
where she is, by the way?”

It was not till afternoon, however that the girl came on deck.

She was alone and Topham went straight to her side. “Pardon me,” he
said. “I want to thank you for your great kindness last night.”

The girl smiled at him. “I hope you feel better, senor!” she said.

“Much better! Seasickness is humiliating, but it isn’t lasting. I am
all right, except that I am still a little shaky on my legs.” As he
spoke Topham wobbled with what he hoped was artistic verisimilitude.

The girl uttered a little cry. “Oh!” she exclaimed. “You must not
stand. Take this chair.” She indicated the one next to hers and Topham
sank into it with a sigh of content.

Two hours later when the dinner gong sounded, the girl started and
looked at her watch. “Good gracious!” she exclaimed. “How the day has
gone. I make you my compliments, senor! You have made the time fly.”

She rose and Topham regretfully followed suit.

“I hope you will give me another opportunity, senorita,” he pleaded.

“But yes. Most certainly! I shall be charmed.” With a smile and a nod
she was gone.

The most of the voyage--or as much of it as the proprieties and the
Baroness Ostersacken would permit--Topham spent by Miss Ferreira’s
side. Day after day the two watched the shadows shorten, vanish, and
grow long once more. Night after night they saw the moon sail across
the star-dusted sky, and watched the ripples break athwart her silvery
reflection in the water. Day after day, night after night they grew
into each other’s thoughts--while the Baroness Ostersacken played
propriety in the background.

By the end of the voyage each had learned much about the other. Topham
had learned that the girl was the daughter of a German mother and a
Brazilian father and that she was returning from a trip to Rio Janiero,
made in charge of her cousin the Baroness, to join her brother at
Berlin. She, on the other hand, learned that Topham was a navy officer,
en route for Tokio, who was going via Berlin to see an old friend,
and would thence go to Brindisi to join his ship. Not a word nor a
suggestion from either had reference to any papers he might carry.

Long before the end of the voyage Topham had made up his mind that
this was the one girl in the world for him. His earlier affection for
Lillian Byrd he had absolutely forgotten or remembered only to wonder
that he should ever have mistaken it for real love. It was a very milk
and water feeling contrasted with the madness that possessed him now.

Yet what to do? His orders were imperative and he must obey them to the
last jot and tittle. Nothing must be allowed to prevent his reaching
Berlin and delivering his packet to Rutile; nothing must be allowed to
prevent him from reporting on board the Nevada at Brindisi four days
later; and nothing must prevent him from reaching Japan and trying to
get the information his government desired.

For the first time in his life the collar galled. Oh! to be free to
take this woman in his arms and tell her that he loved her. He believed
that he would not do so in vain. But he knew, none better, that he had
no right to speak while bound for the antipodes. And if he could not
speak he had no right to hint nor suggest nor attempt, however vaguely,
to bind the girl’s fancy.

For another reason he was not free. His mysterious illness had not
recurred, but neither had it been explained. Several times he had seen
and twice he had spoken with his Spanish-American acquaintance, (whose
name turned out to be Sebastian Gomez), but he had been able to find
out nothing suspicious about him. And even if he had been convinced of
the man’s guilt, he was still absolutely without reason to suspect Miss
Ferreira of any complicity in it. Almost he had made up his mind that
his illness had really been accidental. If his own interests alone had
been concerned he would have dismissed the incident from his mind.

But not only his own interests were involved. His country had trusted
him to carry a message safely to Berlin and he had no right to take
any chance nor to neglect any precaution nor to disregard any threat,
however slight, that might endanger his carrying out its behests.
Until that packet was in Rutile’s hands, he must not involve himself
with anyone--least of all with anyone on whom even the suggestion of
suspicion could fall.

So he kept silent, even on the last evening of the voyage--even when
he saw the sun rise beyond the distant line that marked Germany and
the port of Cuxhaven, at the mouth of the Elbe, where he must leave
the ship and finish his journey to Berlin by rail, to the destruction
of all chance for further familiar intercourse. He had resolved on his
course and he would stick to it at whatever cost. He would part from
the girl without a word of love and discharge his duty to the last
iota. Then--then he would get leave or resign if need be and come back
to seek her. It was cold comfort to hope that he might find her still
free, but it was all he had.

Rapidly Cuxhaven swelled in the perspective, and soon the steamer
drew alongside the dock. As Topham watched the welcoming crowd,
Miss Ferreira, standing by his side, gave a cry and began to wave
her handkerchief. “See, senor!” she exclaimed. “My brother! Yonder!
Herrman! Herrman!” she called.

A patch of white fluttered in the hands of a man on the pier; and the
owner pressed forward, eager to get on board. Soon Topham saw him
coming up the plank.

The navy officer drew aside to let sister and brother meet without
intrusion. Later, Miss Ferreira called him and he stepped forward to be
introduced.

Ferreira was very like his sister, but was tall and strong, almost
as tall and strong, Topham judged, as he himself. He clasped the
American’s hand warmly.

“I am delighted to meet you, senor,” he cried. “My sister tells me how
much you have done to make her crossing pleasant. Do you go directly to
Berlin, senor?”

Topham nodded. “Directly!” he replied.

“Then we shall be fellow passengers.”

“That will be pleasant. You came to take Miss Ferreira back, I suppose?”

But the Brazilian shook his head. “Not exactly,” he replied. “I came to
bring her word that she must stop over in Hamburg, only two hours away.
Beyond Hamburg we will go on without her.”

Without noticing that Topham had paled at his words the Brazilian
glanced over the side.

“If you are ready, senor,” he remarked, turning back. “Perhaps we had
better descend to the custom house.”

Topham hesitated. “If you’ll wait for just an instant,” he answered.
“I’ll be with you. I want to speak to the purser.”

Ferreira nodded, and Topham disappeared. In a few minutes he was back.
A slight bulge above his right breast showed the presence of a packet
of some kind and an occasional slight lift of his coat in the fresh
breeze, showed that it consisted of a big official-looking envelope.

But if either Ferreira or his sister noticed it they did not let the
fact appear.




CHAPTER IV


The ride to Hamburg was short and pleasant. There the whole party
disembarked; Elsa and the Baroness to remain, and Ferreira and Topham
to take another train for Berlin.

In the waiting-room Topham made his farewells. Ferreira had gone to see
after the baggage and the Baroness had fallen a little behind, so that
the two were practically alone. Briefly, almost coldly, for fear his
passion might break away in spite of himself, Topham pressed the girl’s
hand and bade her adieu.

“Good-by, Senorita,” he said, slowly. “I have to thank you for a very
delightful voyage. Is there no chance at all that I may see you in
Berlin. I shall be there till day after tomorrow.”

The girl shook her head. If she were piqued by Topham’s self-restraint
she did not show it. “I must stay in Hamburg for the present,” she
answered, deliberately. “I shall not go to Berlin till much later. So
this is really good-by, senor.”

“Good-by.” Topham clasped her extended hand; then turned away, afraid
to trust himself further.

But the girl called him back. “Senor!” she exclaimed softly. “Senor!”

“Yes!”

“Listen! Be careful. Be very careful. Things--happen--to strangers
sometimes. Be very careful, senor, till you are safe in Berlin.”

Topham stared. “I don’t understand,” he said.

“There is nothing to understand--except to be--careful. This country
is not always altogether safe for strangers. Be careful--for my sake,
senor.”

The girl’s voice broke and Topham started forward, flinging resolutions
to the wind.

“Elsa,” he cried. “I--”

But the voice of Ferreira broke in. “Cab’s waiting, Elsa,” he called.
“Come along! Hurry! Or you’ll make Senor Topham and me miss our train.”

Recalled to himself by the interruption, Topham raised the girl’s hand
to his lips, then dropped it and saw her led away.

Soon Ferreira was back. “Quick, Senor Topham!” he called. “The train’s
waiting.”

Many people apparently were going to Berlin, but few of them appeared
to hold first-class tickets, and the two young men speedily found an
empty carriage, in which they ensconced themselves.

Ferreira promptly leaned out of the window. “Here! guard,” he said,
holding out his hand. “I don’t want to be bothered with other people!
You understand!” A piece of silver changed hands and the Brazilian
settled back.

Then he turned and nodded to Topham.

“We’ll try to keep this compartment to ourselves, senor,” he said. “I
detest travelling shut in with three or four others. I suppose you
agree with me.”

Topham answered that he did.

An instant later the guards began to run along the platform slamming
the doors. Just before they reached the carriage that sheltered Topham,
two Germans came running up. One of them grabbed the handle of the door
and jerked it open, and both precipitated themselves into the carriage,
despite the Brazilian’s strenuous protests.

“We have as good right here as you, nicht wahr?” asserted the foremost,
seating himself without any ceremony. “This carriage is not reserved?
What? It has no placard out? No!”

Ferreira fumed, pouring out so swift a torrent of guttural German that
Topham, good German scholar as he was, could not understand one word in
five. The intruders, however, clearly understood very well. Scornfully
indifferent at first, they soon roused to the assault and apparently
gave back as good as he sent.

In the middle of the dispute the train started, but neither Ferreira
nor his adversary seemed to note that the case was closed. Hotter and
hotter waxed the wordy war. Soon the two men were glaring at each
other, shaking their fists and seeming on the point of flying at each
other’s throats.

Topham watched the contest with twinkling eyes. If he had been in Italy
or France, where men are supposed to be more excitable, the scene would
not have seemed very strange to him. But that notoriously phlegmatic
Germans should work themselves into a passion over such a trifle seemed
to him amazing. He scarcely believed, however, that the quarrel would
end in actual violence; and so, though ready to aid Ferreira (Elsa’s
brother) if need arose, he sat still and looked on, letting a ghost of
a smile flicker across his lips.

Instantly, with bewildering abruptness the other German leaned across
the carriage, shaking his fist in the American’s face, and shouting
something which Topham did not catch, but which he instinctively knew
was insulting.

The navy officer flushed angrily, and the next moment the other
launched a blow at his face.

Topham parried and struck back shrewdly. He landed, but before he could
follow up his advantage, the other German precipitated himself upon
him, and in an instant the carriage became a pandemonium of struggling,
kicking, fighting men.

Topham was big and strong, but he had been taken unawares, and found
himself pinned down in the seat in the grasp of men stronger than he.
Ferreira, though he struggled, did so ineffectively, and both intruders
were practically free to concentrate on the American. The bout ended
with Topham and Ferreira on the floor with the two Germans sitting on
top of them, panting.

The struggle had lasted for some time, and in the momentary hush
that followed its cessation the shriek of the locomotive was heard,
whistling for a stop.

None of the four moved as the train slowed down. Then the Germans stood
up, releasing the others. “We leave here, Herren,” said the leader.
“This is our address if you wish to carry matters further.” They both
bowed, flung down their cards, and stepped out through the door that
the guard opened for them.

Left alone, Ferreira and Topham arose slowly. Topham was humiliated
and intensely angry, but he saw the futility of engaging in a further
contest at that moment. In fact, he scarcely knew what to do. The
crisis had come with such bewildering suddenness, and had been so
surprising both in its inception and its results, that it had taken
away his breath, both actually and figuratively. That such a thing
should happen in a German railway carriage, of all places in the world,
was to him almost too amazing for belief.

Meanwhile Ferreira had snatched up the cards. “They shall die for
this,” he hissed. “Madre de Dios! But they shall die. I have friends
here. They will act for you too, Senor Topham! Come! Let us seek them!”
He made as if to leave the train.

But Topham shook his head. “Not for me,” he declared. “I don’t fight
duels, not when I’m on duty, anyhow. Besides, I see little cause. They
bested us fairly. Anyhow, it’s too late now.”

As a matter of fact, the train was moving again.

The Brazilian hesitated. Then suddenly he tore the cards to pieces and
flung them out of the window. “So be it, Senor!” he acceded.

Topham glanced down at his clothes and found them whole, though badly
rumpled. Suddenly he started, just as he had on the steamer the night
he left New York, and thrust his hands into his inner pocket; then
dropped it weakly to his side.

At his blank look Ferreira cried out: “You are hurt, senor!” he
exclaimed.

Slowly the color came back to Topham’s face. “No!” he said.
“Not--not--hurt! You--you don’t see an envelope--a big blue
envelope--lying around anywhere, do you?” Dazedly he peered under the
seats.

Ferreira aided him. “I hope it was not valuable, senor!” he ventured.

Slowly Topham shook his head. “Not intrinsically,” he answered.
“But--but it was--of great personal value to me. Those men must have
taken it. I suppose it is too late to find them?”

The Brazilian looked blank. “Dolt that I am!” he cried. “I destroyed
the cards!”

Topham nodded. “Probably they would be useless, anyhow,” he muttered.
“We will say no more about it, senor, if you will be so kind.”

The rest of the trip passed uneventfully. Topham was moody and said
little, and Ferreira did not disturb him.

When Berlin was reached Ferreira leaped lightly from the train. “You
will come to my hotel, and refresh yourself, senor; it is not so?” he
invited.

But Topham shook his head. “Thank you,” he replied. “I must go first to
the American Embassy. The secretary there is an old friend of mine. In
fact I came by Berlin particularly to see him. So you will excuse me,
senor.”

Ferreira bowed. “Ah!” he exclaimed. “El Senor Rutile! He is a friend of
yours? A fine fellow, Rutile! Boni! I shall do myself the honor to call
on you later. Auf wiedersehen, senor.”

With a nod and a bow he was gone.

Topham stared after him perplexedly. “I guess you were in it, my
friend,” he syllabled, slowly; “and I guess you think you’ve won. But
the game isn’t yours yet, not by a long shot.” He paused; then “God
bless her,” he muttered. “She tried to save me! God bless her!”




CHAPTER V


“By Jove! Walter! I’m glad to see you.” Rutile sprang to his feet and
hurried forward as Topham entered the office of the embassy. “How are
you, old man?” he rattled on. “I heard you were coming, but didn’t
expect you quite so soon. Must have had a quick trip!”

Topham shook hands, smilingly. No sign of distress on account of the
missing papers clouded his eyes.

“Pretty quick,” he answered. “Glad to get here; however.”

Rutile turned. “Let me present you to the ambassador,” he said. “Your
Excellency! This is Mr. Topham of the navy, an old friend of mine, en
route to Tokio via Brindisi and Suez.”

Topham started and shot a glance of surprise at Rutile. Then he turned
back to the ambassador, who smiled and put out his hand.

“I’m glad to see you, Mr. Topham,” he said, a little ponderously.
“Isn’t it er--rather unusual to go from Washington to Tokio by way of
Berlin?”

The ambassador’s tones were entirely casual, but Topham thought he
detected some veiled meaning in them, perhaps because he was thinking
of the secretary’s caution to say nothing to the ambassador about the
papers placed in his charge. “Well! yes! it is unusual,” he answered.
“You see the navy’s short of officers and has to make out as best it
can. They are going to make me earn my passage to Tokio by serving as
watch officer on the Nevada. She leaves Brindisi for Manila on Friday,
and I’m to join her, so as to let one of her present officers be
invalided home.”

“But even so, Berlin seems off your route.”

Topham laughed. “It is a little,” he assented. “But I had never been
here and I wanted to see old Rutile, and so I persuaded the personnel
bureau to make my orders read via Berlin. It isn’t much out of the way.”

“I see!” The ambassador rose. “I--er--thought at first that you might
have brought me some special instructions?” His voice had a slight
rising inflection at the end.

But Topham shook his head. “Nothing of the sort, I’m sorry to say,
Your Excellency,” he replied.

“No? It’s just as well. Special instructions are usually unpleasant.
I’ll be glad to see you at my house if your engagements will allow, Mr.
Topham.” He turned to the secretary. “Just send my mail in to me, will
you, Mr. Rutile?” he finished.

Rutile turned to a pile of mail that had evidently just been dumped on
the table. “Here are two letters for you right on top,” he remarked,
passing them over. “If I find any more, I’ll send them in.”

“Do!Mr. Topham, since you have come so far to see Mr. Rutile, I won’t
interfere with your chat with him any longer.”

The ambassador looked from one young man to the other and his eyes
twinkled; but he left the room with nothing more except a nod.

As soon as he was gone, Rutile turned to Topham. “Well! Let’s have it,
old man!” he exclaimed.

Topham did not answer at once. He had drawn near the table and was
staring at the pile of mail matter. “So this is how you get your mail,”
he remarked, with apparent irrelevance.

“That! Oh! that isn’t official mail! That’s mostly letters and papers
for tourists sent in care of the embassy. The official mail comes in a
private bag. But let’s have those instructions.”

Topham’s eyebrows went up! “What instructions?” he demanded.

“The instructions you brought me from the Secretary of State, of
course.”

“Oh!


CHAPTER


How do you know I have any special instructions for you?”

“The department tipped it off by cable! Let’s have ’em.”

But Topham shook his head. “Hold on a minute!” he exclaimed. “I should
like to understand this game, if you are at liberty to explain. Why in
thunder is the Secretary of State sending you instructions by a navy
officer instead of by the regular channels, and why is he sending you
any instructions at all that he conceals from the ambassador?”

Rutile threw himself back in the chair. “Search me!” he replied
cheerfully. “‘These are the Lord’s doings; they are wonderful in our
sight!’ If I had to guess, though, I should say that the instructions
you bring treat of a secret service matter which has nothing to do
with ambassadorial duties--yet.”

“I don’t understand.”

“Of course not. But it’s like this! Ambassadors are usually highly
polished, highly educated, highly ornate somebodies who have the
money and the wish to put up a fine front. Their principal duties
are to cultivate people, give dinners, and generally jolly things
along. Besides, they come and go, and can’t be expected to know all
the ins and outs of the game. We secretaries are more permanent, and
we are expected to know it all--and to plan it. If we make a slip,
the ambassador disavows us, and we are recalled. We are denounced as
presumptuous underlings who have acted without authority--not worth
quarreling over. Do you understand now?”

Topham nodded. “Yes! I begin to understand,” he said.

“All right! Now let’s have the papers.”

But Topham shook his head. “I haven’t any papers for you, Rutile!” he
said soberly. “I did have, but--I haven’t now!”

Rutile stared at him. “Good Lord! Man! You haven’t lost them, have
you?” he cried.

Topham hesitated. “No!” he answered, at last. “I haven’t lost them.
But I became a little alarmed about their safety and so I put them into
an envelope and addressed them to John Smith in care of the embassy
here. I carried a dummy in my pocket. The purser said they would reach
here about as soon as I did, and unless I am mistaken they are in that
envelope close to your hand on the table there. Allow me!”

The navy officer reached over and picked up an envelope. He opened it
and took out a packet which he handed to Rutile.

“Take your instructions,” he said.

Rutile threw himself back in his chair. “Well! I’m d--d!” he observed.

“Very likely!”

“But--but why did you-- What happened to--”

“Nothing! Nothing at all! There were some slight incidents--nothing of
any importance.”

“Oh! Nothing of any importance. Humph!” Rutile’s tones were sarcastic;
but he understood that for some reason Topham did not wish to speak
frankly, and so he proceeded cautiously.

“Er--voyage quite pleasant, I suppose?” he questioned.

Topham laughed ruefully. “Oh! Yes,” he answered, slowly. “Yes! Very
pleasant. Delightful, in fact! But, confound it, old man! Do you know,
I was seasick? Think of it! Seasick! Why, I haven’t been seasick for
ten years--not since my maiden cruise in Academy days. But I got it
this time good and proper!”

“Ah!” Rutile dropped his eyes, and began playing with a paper weight.
“How long did it last?” he questioned, carefully.

“Couple of days! It caught me right after dinner the first night out.
I went really dizzy. Fortunately it was cloudy and there weren’t any
people on deck, and my shameful secret became known to few. A girl who
happened to be there offered me a chair and I lay in it till I could
get to my cabin.”

“Humph! It’s lucky you didn’t go to sleep in that chair--with these
papers in your pocket!”

“I did go to sleep. Had quite a--er--nap, I suspect. But the papers
weren’t in my pocket. The purser had them in his safe.”

“Oh! I see!” Rutile laughed shortly. “Of course your humiliating
experience spoiled any chance for a flirtation with the charming girl
who--she was charming, of course.”

“She was, emphatically!”

“What was her name?”

“Miss Elsa Ferreira!”

“What!”

“Miss Elsa Ferreira. Do you know her?”

“Do I? Well--But that can’t be all. Were there any more--er--incidents?”

“Well, yes!” Topham spoke carefully. “Yes. There was one other small
occurrence. I came up from Cuxhaven with her brother.”

“Ah! You were--alone--with him?”

“Only for a few minutes. Two other men insisted on butting into our
compartment. Ferreira got quite excited in his efforts to keep them
out, but they would come in. Of course, they had as much right as we
did. But Ferreira wouldn’t stand for it and actually came to blows with
them. In fact I was involved and--I got the worst of it, too!”

With a chuckle Rutile threw himself back in his chair. “Well! I will be
d--d!” he observed. “You don’t mean you had a regular fight, do you?”

Topham grinned. “Well! Not exactly. The intruders simply sat down on
Ferreira and me. We weren’t in it, really. Then at the next stop they
threw down their cards and left the train.”

“Their cards? What were their names?”

“I don’t know! Ferreira--by the way, he said he knew
you--Ferreira--er--lost them out of the window!” replied Topham,
guilelessly. “Later I discovered that somehow I had lost my dummy
package in the scuffle.”

“Oh! Oh!--And the lady? What became of her?”

“She stayed in Hamburg. You understand, old man, these things that I’ve
been telling you are mere incidents of travel, of no real consequence.
You do understand that, don’t you?”

Rutile choked. “Oh! yes! certainly,” he acceded. “Now, if you’ll excuse
me for a moment I’ll see just what these instructions are about.”

“All right!”

Rutile examined the carefully placed seals, made sure that they were
intact, and then broke them and drew out the papers inside. A moment
later he gave a low whistle.

“Say, old man?” he exclaimed. “It’s just as I thought. You came over
with--with--”

The sentence was never finished. While the secretary hesitated for a
word, the door of the room was flung open and a young man rushed in and
dropped into a chair.




CHAPTER VI


The young man who flung into the embassy as if he owned it was small,
round and jolly, with a twinkle in his eye that persisted even when, as
at the moment in question, he was fuming with anger and disgust.

“Give me a drink, for God’s sake, Rutile,” he cried. “I’ve been talking
to Ouro Preto and I need a bracer. Of all the--”

“Hello, Risdon!” Topham stepped forward and held out his hand. “Hello!
old man!” he repeated, smilingly.

“By all the gods! Walter Topham! Where in thunder did you come from?”
He grabbed the other’s hand and wrung it warmly. “Say!” he went on,
“We’ve simply got to celebrate this! Rutile. Are you going to order
those drinks, or shall I?”

Rutile was again looking through the papers brought by Topham. Without
raising his eyes he reached over and pounded a bell. “Shut up or talk
to Topham till I finish this,” he ordered.

“What you reading? A love letter?”

“Lord! no! Nothing half so important. Only some stuff from the State
Department.”

“Oh! That! Let it go!” He turned back to Topham. “By George old man! I
haven’t seen you since I bilged from the U. S. N. A. Who’d a-thought we
three would ever meet here? You, the savey man of the class; Rutile,
the--the--I’ll be darned if I know what; and me the only one of the
three who’s done a lick of work since we got out of the Academy--and
then only because Uncle Sam gently but firmly refused to support me.
But, say, Topham! How’d you get here? In command of a canal boat? Why
don’t you speak up instead of making a quiet man break his rule against
talking?”

Topham smiled. In fact, he had been smiling ever since he clasped
Risdon’s hand, quite content to let the other rattle on unchecked. But
at Risdon’s direct appeal, he began to speak, only to pause as a darkey
servant thrust his head in the door.

Rutile glanced up. “Three beers, Caesar,” he ordered, and resumed his
writing.

“Three beers!” protested Risdon, disgustedly. “Good Heavens! Rutile!
Three beers! And you claim to be from Kentucky.” Then, seeing that the
secretary was not listening, he turned again to Topham.

“Where’d you say you were going to?” he demanded.

“I didn’t say. But I’m on my way to Tokio as naval attaché. Leave here
tomorrow night; join the Nevada at Brindisi Friday; go with her to
Manila as watch officer and then by passenger steamer to Japan. Stopped
over here a day to see Rutile.”

Caesar re-entered with the beer, but with him he brought a tall dark
bottle and three small glasses. “Ain’t goin’ to offer beer to no navy
officer or newspaper gen’mens”, he muttered. “Ain’t a-going to do it,
nohow, massa Rutile.”

Rutile grinned and laid down his papers. “Help yourselves, fellows!”
he said. “Maybe Caesar knows your tastes better than I do. Prosit!” He
lifted his stein and gulped the liquid. “Now, Risdon,” he went on, “You
may confide your troubles to Uncle Sam. What’s troubling the special
commissioner of the New York Gazette to his Imperial Majesty Wilhelm
and the other crowned heads of Europe, Asia, and Africa?”

An expression of disgust came over the correspondent’s face. “Don’t be
funny,” he said, severely. “If you think staggering under that tom-fool
appellation is any joke you’re mistaken. Say! Rutile! What do you
think of that fellow Ouro Preto, anyhow? Reveal your inmost soul--not
necessarily for publication, but as an evidence of good sense. Speak
the truth. There are no ladies present, so you needn’t restrain
yourself.”

Rutile stretched out his legs and grinned. “I don’t like Ouro Preto
much myself,” he answered; “but plenty of others do. What’s he done to
you?”

“It isn’t what he’s done; its what he is! He’s always making up to
me--God knows what for. I don’t like him.”

“Natural antipathy, eh! Ouro Preto is a half German, half Brazilian
count, Topham, who’s spending the winter in Berlin and who’s trod on
Risdon’s toes somehow. Probably refused to admit the right of the
American press to pry into his inmost concerns.”

“Refused, nothing!” shouted the reporter. “It’s my business to read
men, and it ought to be yours, Rutile, if you were with your salt.
We’re all as God made us, if not worse. But I give you fair warning to
watch out for Ouro Preto. He’ll do you dirt if he gets the chance.”

Rutile did not laugh, though he looked as though he would much have
liked doing so. The correspondent’s rhodomontade did not seem to
impress him greatly. “And the villain still pursued her,” he remarked,
casually.

“Oh! all right. Go your own way. Only don’t say I didn’t warn you. I’m
not the only one who thinks so. If it wasn’t for his sister he’d be
kicked out mucho pronto! Say! Topham! You never met his sister, did
you?”

Topham shook his head but did not speak.

“Well! You don’t want to! Not if you’ve got a girl back home and want
to remember her. The countess catches all sorts and every sort. She’s
the prettiest, wittiest, beautifulest--”

Before Topham could shape an answer, a passing band struck up one of
the waltzes of the day, and with its strains there rose before the navy
officer’s mind a face--the face of the girl with whom he had sat upon
the steamer two nights before and listened to the band play that same
waltz.

The music died away in the distance, and he looked up at Risdon.
“When’s the wedding to be?” he laughed.

“The wedding? God forbid! I’d as soon marry a catamount. Not that
this particular catamount would marry me or any one else less than a
duke--if she and that brother of hers get what they’re after. But that
doesn’t make her any the less entertaining--when she has something to
gain by it. She worked me all right--once.” The correspondent winced at
the recollection. “Wait till you see her!”

“Probably I won’t. I must be off tomorrow, you know. Who are they--she
and her brother--anyway? And what are they after?”

“After? Trouble! Big trouble sure! Rutile won’t admit it--for
publication. Says I’m a yellow reporter, you know. But it’s so, all the
same. But, say, I’ve got to go up to the war office. Come along with me
and I’ll tell you the yarn!”

“Yes! Do! Go along, Topham. I’ve got an hour’s work that must be done,
and then I’m at your service. And--by the way, when you cross the
bridge, pick Risdon up by the nape of the neck and drop him gently into
the River Spree. Then come back to lunch.”

Risdon jumped up. “That’s American bluntness, I suppose,” he
exclaimed. “Ouro Preto said the other day that Americans had no more
manners than a wet dog. I came near knocking him down for it, but I’ll
be darned if I don’t believe he was right. Come along, Topham.”

The two young men clattered down the stairs into the broad Unter
den Linden. Crowds thronged the sidewalk and a double current of
miscellaneous vehicles moved unceasing between the curbs. Everything on
wheels was represented, from a 60-horsepower automobile to an oxcart.
Laughing and chatting Risdon led Topham through the maze, pointing out
famous men and famous places with comments, the least of which, if
overheard by any one of the stiff-necked German officers they passed,
would have brought forth an immediate challenge.

After a while he pointed to an ornate stone pile. “That’s where our
pretty countess lives,” he remarked, airily. “I haven’t seen her for
two or three weeks. Wonder where she’s keeping herself?”

“The countess Ouro Preto? Oh! yes! You were going to tell me something
about her, weren’t you?” questioned Topham, carelessly.

“Sure!


CHAPTER


it’s this way. She and her brother are the children of the
Count Ouro Preto, Governor of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
They are also the grandchildren of a former Duke of Hochstein, by a
second, morganatic, marriage with a ballet dancer, by whom he had one
daughter. All the duke’s children by his first and royal consort died.
All his nephews died. Everybody died, except the morganatic daughter,
who married a Brazilian, the Count of Ouro Preto, and went to South
America with him. The ducal line became extinct, for of course this
daughter’s descendants had no standing. Now comes Ouro Preto and his
sister, children of this daughter, backed by enormous wealth, and
petition the Emperor to revive the duchy in their behalf. You see,
her marriage to the duke was proper and religious and all that, and
was only morganatic because the duke was chief of a mediatized German
house, and couldn’t marry except among his princely beery peers. Now
the Ouro Pretos have faked up a royal pedigree for the ballet dancer.
If they can make it stick, they establish her moral claim to the duchy,
and gain a sort of backstairs standing for themselves. Of course the
ballet dancer pedigree is faked; everybody says it’s faked; the Kaiser
probably knows it’s faked; but that won’t cut any ice if Wilhelm
decides to declare it established. And everybody is on pins and needles
to know whether he is going to do it or not. Ouro Preto has offered to
buy back the ducal estates, which were escheated to the Emperor half a
century ago, at two million dollars, which is about three times their
value, and to spend two million more on beautifying the tiny capital of
Hochstein. It’s all a matter of price. Lord, Topham! I used to think we
had a monopoly of graft on the other side of the water. But we haven’t.
Not a bit of it. We buy senatorships and these people buy titles. The
same longing for power, the same craving for notoriety, the same love
of display exists in the U. S. A. as here. Ouro Preto wants to be a
sovereign duke and he’s got the scads to pay for it. It’s up to the
kaiser to say whether he bids high enough. And I shouldn’t wonder if
the Countess Elsa would turn the scale.”

Suddenly the reporter broke off. He clutched Topham by the arm and
dragged him to the edge of the pavement. “Stand still a minute,” he
ordered, as he rested his hand on the navy officer’s shoulder and
raised himself on tiptoe. “Yes! it’s she,” he exclaimed, an instant
later. “You big men will never realize how useful your inches are till
you try being a little man in a crowd. You say you have never seen the
fair Elsa, Countess del Ouro Preto? Well! You are about to have that
pleasure. Yonder she comes, in that red motor.”

Walter looked where the other pointed. Then something seemed to grip
him by the throat, and he caught at the journalist’s shoulder to steady
himself.

The motor was very near, and he could see its occupants distinctly.
They were two in number. One was stout and middleaged; Topham’s eyes
passed over her unheeding. The other was Elsa Ferreira.

Her eyes met Topham’s and a great wave of crimson flooded over her
cheeks. Her hand slipped, and the motor swerved sharply. The other
woman started and screamed out, and the fair driver, suddenly recalled
to herself, barely avoided a collision. Then the car swept on.

Topham followed it with his eyes, forgetful of his whereabouts till it
was swallowed up in the press. Then suddenly he became aware that the
correspondent was shaking him violently by the arm.

“What is it?” he questioned vaguely.

“What is it!” Risdon’s voice was trembling with excitement. “What is
it? Brace up, for God’s sake, Walter,” he begged. “People are staring.
If you could see yourself! But good Lord, I don’t wonder! Nobody ever
looked at me as that woman looked at you.”

With a great effort Topham regained his composure. “Nonsense!” he said.
“Forget for a moment that you’re a yellow journalist, Risdon, and don’t
try to make a sensation out of nothing. I know the lady slightly. She
crossed with me from New York.”




CHAPTER VII


Topham never remembered how he got through the next hour. He went from
place to place with Risdon, talked and laughed, met men--some of them
famous men, too--but he did it all mechanically. His thoughts were with
the girl whom he had seen in the automobile--the girl with whom he had
crossed from New York--the girl who had told him her name was Elsa
Ferreira--the girl who had warned him to be careful. Clearly she was
one of the conspirators against himself, but he did not care. He had
given the letter safely to Risdon and was free to act for himself for
twenty-four hours--till it was time to leave Berlin.

When at last the hour for luncheon was at hand and he could leave
Risdon on a plea that he must hurry back to the embassy, he did so with
an alacrity which he feared the reporter would detect.

Once alone he lost no time in making his way to the ornate stone
pile that Risdon had pointed out to him as the home of the Count and
Countess of Ouro Preto.

Scarcely could he control himself while he waited for a reply to the
card he sent up. It seemed to him incredible that it had been only that
morning that he had parted from Elsa--he thought of her as Elsa--at the
steamer. It seemed weeks even since he had gazed into her eyes across
the traffic that thronged the street.

By and by a man came down the stairs. Topham recognized him as his
Spanish-American acquaintance of the cigarette episode and grinned.
“They’re all in it,” he observed. “But I don’t care. I don’t care a
continental damn.”

He turned as a trim maid servant came running down the stairs, and
bowed before him.

“The wohlgebornen Grafin will receive the Herr Lieutenant Topham,” she
said. “Be pleased to walk up!”

Topham did so without delay.

As he entered her apartment the countess rose, and for an instant the
two stared at each other. Curiosity was in that gaze, for those two
had learned much about each other since they had parted. Defiance was
in it, for both felt instinctively that their wills were to clash and
both were ready for the encounter; fascination--or something strangely
akin to fascination--was in it. The pause was that of two fencers
who hesitate before they cross swords. It was for a second only, then
the countess swept forward and held out her hand. “Mr. Topham?” she
murmured. “I am glad to see you.”

Topham bowed as he took the hand in his. She wore a wonderful gown of
clinging silk against which her dark beauty scintilated star-like. He
could not speak. Her loveliness and what it meant--must mean--to him in
the future took his breath away and held him for the moment dumb.

“But you ought not to have come!” she went on, slowly, when he did not
speak.

Topham shook his head. “You knew I would come,” he declared, meaningly.

The countess flushed, and Topham pushed the fight. “Did you not know
it?” he demanded.

Changing emotion swept across the countess’s mobile face. Surprise,
indignation, panic succeeded each other and at last gave place to an
expression hard to define. She flushed, trembled slightly; and her eyes
dropped before those of the man who still held her hand.

“Yes!” she breathed. “Yes! I knew.”

“Ahem!” An elderly lady had risen and came forward and seemed somewhat
amazed by the scene. “Ahem! Ahem!” she coughed, and then more
violently, “Ahem!”

The countess started. One would have said that she had forgotten her
companion, which was singular for a girl brought up under the duenna
system, however much she might have emancipated herself. Then she
turned. “You know the Baroness Ostersacken, Mr. Topham,” she said.

Topham bowed. “Yes!” he said. “I know.”

“Ach! Gott!” The baroness seemed confused. “You are welcome, Herr
Topham,” she declared. “Will you not be seated?”

The countess led the way to a window beside which two chairs were
placed, while the baroness, waddling back to the seat some distance
away, from which she had risen, picked up some fancy work.

The countess sat down and indicated the chair by her side. “Sit down,
Mr. Topham,” she invited.

But Topham stood motionless, hand on the back of the chair, looking at
her.

The sun streamed golden through the great window, a stray beam lighting
on her hair, transformed its dark mass into iridescent fire. A potted
palm swept her shoulders with its delicate fronds. From the street
below came up the tramp of men, the rattle of wagons, the jingle of a
tram car.

Abruptly Topham spoke. “Please send the baroness away!” he directed,
serenely.

Again the countess’ face flamed. She rose half way from her chair; then
sat down again, trembling.

“Senor!” she faltered, returning instinctively to her mother tongue.
“What mean you? I--I can not receive you without a duenna. It--it is
impossible.”

“Not to you! To others, perhaps! Send her away--please.”

“But it is impos--” She rose. “Baroness,” she said, “would you mind
looking for a letter from Herrman that I left in the bottom of my
escritoire?”

The baroness rose. Her expression was inscrutable. Perhaps she was
already so much surprised that her features, incapable of expressing
her amazement, had reverted to their former placidity--a placidity from
which nothing was likely soon to stir them. “Yes! Yes!” she murmured.
“Yes! Yes! Mein Gott!”

When she had disappeared through the door at the end of the room the
countess turned to Topham. “Now, senor,” she said, with more spirit
than she had shown since the American’s arrival. “I have obeyed your
orders and sent away my duenna. True, she is only in the next room,
but still we are alone. What have you to say to me to warrant such a
demand?”

“You know.” Topham’s voice was not quite so steady. “Senorita,” he went
on. “Let me tell you something of myself. I belong to an old Virginia
family--one of the F. F. Vs., as they call us derisively. My people
have lived in Virginia for nearly three hundred years, and nearly every
one of them had a romance. My great grandparents eloped; my grandfather
married my grandmother the day after he met her; my father wanted to
marry my mother at first sight of her, but was compelled to wait a
year--till he was nineteen. I understand that your heritage is similar;
that your father stole your mother from the duke’s palace. Finally”--He
paused and leaned forward.

“When I parted from you this morning I thought I could wait. I meant
to see you again, but I thought--. But I was wrong. I can not leave
you without speaking! When I saw you on the street I knew that I could
not. Love has come to me suddenly, as it comes to all the men of my
race--suddenly but for all time. I have played at love-making before.
I did not know what love was. I thought--Good God! How could I have
thought as I did? How could any man mistake water for wine, moonshine
for sunshine?”

Very slowly and deliberately, he took the countess’ face between his
palms and looked down at her. “Look at me, Elsa,” he said.

Slowly she lifted her starry eyes to his. He bent forward and their
lips met. “That makes you mine,” he said slowly.

The countess said not a word, but she slipped slowly into his arms
and nestled against his broad bosom. It was preposterous, ridiculous,
incredible--this love-making; it was “so very American”, but--but--what
the countess really thought about it would be hard to tell. Whether she
was as mad as Topham or whether there was a purpose in her madness did
not appear.

Topham tilted her perfect chin upward. “Doesn’t it?” he asked, with a
shade of anxiety in his voice. “You love me? You will marry me--soon?”

Gently the countess freed herself; then she stood up and faced him.
“Yes!” she said. “I love you, and I will marry you or no other man,”
She stepped closer to him, and reaching up, placed both hands upon his
shoulders and kissed him on the mouth. “Yes!” she repeated. “I will
marry you--but not soon.”

“Why not? I am under orders. I must leave Berlin tonight. Will you come
with me--or shall I resign from the Navy and stay with you?”

“Neither! I can not marry you--now. No! That is not true! I can, but I
will not. I dare not.”

“Dare not! Who prevents--

“Honor!”

“Honor? Whose honor? yours?”

“No. Your own. What is mine? What is any woman’s when she loves? And
I do love. Do you understand? From the moment I saw you I loved you?
I fought against it. I may not love any man--now; least of all, you.
I am dangerous to you--dangerous! That is why I lied to you. That is
why I told you that I was going to stop in Hamburg instead of coming
to Berlin. It was by a mere chance that you saw me on the street. But
I love you. I have never loved any man before nor will again. No other
man has ever touched my lips. Do you believe me? No--don’t answer. I
know that you do. I love you, and I am careful of your honor--more
careful that I would be of my own. Therefore, I will not marry
you--soon.”

Very straight she stood against the background of palms. Topham,
slow of thought as he was, felt vaguely that she had stood thus
rigid through life that bent around her. But he was determined, too.
Stubbornness rose within him.

But before he could speak, she flung up her hand. “No! Don’t say it!”
she begged. “Don’t compel me to yield. You could do it. No other man
ever bent me; but you--you could break me. But it is best not to do it.
Believe me, you will be sorry if--

“Look you, senor! For years I have lived for but one thing, and that
thing is close to my hand. Yet I would give it up for you and count
it gain to do so if others were not involved--others who rely on
me--others to whom I have passed my word. And yet, I will give it
up--if you ask me. What is a woman’s word, after all? Shall I give it
up?”

Topham shook his head. “Not if you have passed your word. My wife’s
word is mine!” he answered, with splendid egotism.

The countess smiled--but tenderly. Perhaps she noticed the egotism and
was proud of it.

“Then,” she said. “I can not marry you soon. It will take a full
year to redeem my word; and until that is done I can not marry you.
Perhaps”--her voice broke--“perhaps you will not want to marry me then.
But God rules and I can not think he has brought you to me merely to
take you away again.”

She paused and clasped her hands above her heart. “You must not even
see me during that year,” she went on, painfully. “No! Believe me! I
know best. It must be! Go to your ship and come back in a year--if you
will. I, too, am going away soon. When the year is up, or sooner, if it
be possible, I will let you know where I am. Then, if you care to come
to me--”

“Come? I would--”

“Be not too sure. A year is a long time. No! I do not doubt you.
But--but--Kiss me once more, Walter! On the lips! Kiss me! And then
leave me, for this is good-by.”




CHAPTER VIII


Topham and Rutile met at dinner that night, but neither touched on the
subject that lay nearest the navy officer’s heart. Topham was slow
to tell his feelings at any time, and in this particular instance he
wanted to think a little more before he made a confidant of any one.
Rutile, on the other hand, did not care to attempt to force the other’s
confidence. So they talked the meal through on indifferent topics.

Dinner over, Rutile excused himself. “I’m awfully sorry, old man,” he
said. “But I find I can’t be with you until late tonight. I’ve got
about three hours of work that must be done, even if the heavens fall.
I hate to leave you on your only night here, but--”

“Nonsense. That’s all right! I know what orders are. I’ll make out.
I--well, I’ve got to think something out, myself, and I’ll be glad of
the chance. Just tell me where I can go and moon about--”

“Why not go out to the Thiergarten? The band will be playing and
everybody will be there, but you can be as lonely as you please, if you
please. Stay there a few hours and then show up at the embassy about
eleven or twelve o’clock and we’ll have a talk or go out and paint the
town, whichever you like. Berlin isn’t Paris, but it doesn’t go to bed
by curfew law, either.”

“Thank you! I’ll do as you say. But I don’t care to incarnadine
anything. How do I get to this Thiergarten place?”

Rutile told him and an hour later Topham was walking along the
spacious roadways of the park, thinking of nearly everything but his
surroundings.

He was twenty-five, clean-shaven, Gibsonesque, with the erect carriage
that bespeaks military training. As he moved slowly through the crowd,
many halted for a second and glanced at him before turning to the next
corner in the kaleidoscopic throng. Two looks are the best compliment
a stranger can pay; a single glance asserts insignificance, and three
glances argue peculiarity. Walter Topham was neither insignificant nor
peculiar.

But though many looked at Topham, he looked at nobody. The fair face
of the Countess Elsa was ever before his mind’s eye, filling it to
the exclusion of all else. How could he live for a whole year without
seeing her? How could he accept her orders as final? Yet what could he
do? What could he do? He had been glad to get away from Rutile and that
he might once more ask himself the question.

At the edge of the garden he paused and stared unseeingly down the long
avenue stretched before him, hesitating whether or not to turn back.
He cared little for his surroundings. Wherever he was, he saw only
the brilliant tints of this Brazilian countess who wanted to become a
German duchess.

Abruptly his mood changed; he wanted human companionship; and he faced
back into the garden, vaguely wondering whether in its merry-making
throngs he could find the escape from his own thoughts he craved.

The scene was a charming one. Beneath the radiant gaslights moved a
vivid kaleidoscope of uniforms and gowns. Faces, now sternly handsome,
now softly beautiful, flashed out and then disappeared. The animal
houses, built after the fashion of the countries whence their occupants
came, showed here and there through the trees--now an elephant house
from India and next a pagoda filled with bright-colored Japanese
birds. To Topham’s ears as the music hushed, came the sound of gay
laughter and happy song, mingled with the tinkling of glasses from the
little tables beneath the trees. The air was heavy with the scent of
flowers or perhaps with perfume shaken from the gowns of the women. The
Berliners were making merry in the hearty whole-souled German way that
forgets the toils of the day the moment they are over and recalls them
only when the time comes to resume them.

Insensibly the spirit of the place calmed the American. “We’ve nothing
like this at home,” he mused, “More’s the pity. We’re too feverish, too
anxious to finish, so as to be able to start again. Will we ever really
finish, I wonder? Is it our climate or is it merely a passing phase of
our character? We seem to drop out of it readily enough when we come
over here. I don’t suppose there is a soul in all this crowd that is
thinking of anything except the pleasure of the moment.”

He rested his hand on the back of a vacant chair and stared at the
crowd. Hundreds of people were passing him every minute, but he knew
none of them. He could not hope to see the countess, of course, and he
cared little for any one else.

The fates, however, were propitious. Scarcely had he begun to watch,
when he heard his name called. He looked up and smiled. It was Herrman
Ferreira--he who had shared his compartment on the train, he whom he
had come to identify with the Count del Ouro Preto. That is to say,
it was the brother of his charmer--if not the rose it was the nearest
thorn.

“Ah Herr Topham! Well found, my friend. You have quite recovered from
the affair on the train?”

“Oh! Quite! And you?”

“But yes! I hope you have suffered no inconvenience from the loss of
your papers?” The Brazilian’s tones were light, but Topham thought he
read a note of anxiety in them.

“Very little,” he replied. “They were only of sentimental value, Count!”

“Count!” The other smiled. “Ah! Ha! You know. My good friend Rutile has
told you? Yes! I am count. But I seldom use the title. I fly higher.
Perhaps you have heard.”

Topham nodded, and the Brazilian rattled on. “Boni!” he exclaimed. “I
have good news. Come and rejoice with me. As you Americans say, come
and smile with me.” He caught Walter by the arm and drew him down the
walk to the tables beneath the trees.

Topham went willingly enough. Despite the warning of the Gazette
correspondent, he rather liked Ouro Preto. Besides, he was the brother
of the Countess Elsa.

Ouro Preto picked out a table and beckoned to a waiter. “What will
you have, my friend,” he demanded, as he dropped into his chair. “The
gin-rickey or the horse’s-neck or the mint-julep of America; the wine
of France; or the beer of Germany?”

“Anything, so long as it’s beer,” returned Topham, lightly. “But,
Count, what’s your good news?”

“The best ever. You know what it is I want in Berlin? Yes? Well, the
Emperor will see me tomorrow at ten.”

Walter caught up the stein which the swift-footed waiter had placed
before him. “Congratulations!” he cried, and gulped the beer.

Ouro Preto nodded. His eyes were bright with excitement, and his dark
cheeks burned with color. “That argues much, eh? friend Topham?” he
questioned. “Wilhelm does not see a man in private audience unless he
has something to say to him. If he meant to refuse, he could do so by
proxy. That he consents to see me means--means--well, I scarcely dare
guess what it may mean.”

Walter played with his stein. “I’m not familiar with the Emperor’s
ways,” he observed, “But to be received in private audience seems a
mighty good augury.”

Ouro Preto sipped his beer slowly. “It’s great,” he cried. “It must
mean something. And yet you can never tell. Obstacles arise out of
nothing. There are so many interlocking interests over here. One
touches a Frenchman and a Russian suddenly springs up in his way. One
whispers a secret to an Italian, and the next day an Englishman greets
him with it. You Americans are happy to stand aside from all this. As
the great Washington said, you have no entangling alliances. You need
no diplomacy. But here--here every man must be a diplomat and must
intrigue. It is of a necessity.”

The Brazilian raised his stick and beckoned again to the waiter. “Zwei
bier,” he ordered. While he waited, he gazed round at the near-by
tables, scanning their occupants one by one, as if to single out any
who might be watching.

Those at the tables were sufficiently diverse. At one table a
couple of Englishmen were drinking gin; at another the members of
a party, conspicuously American, were laughing guiltily as they
tasted unaccustomed wine; beyond two or three Italians were making
a tremendous noise over a bottle of vin ordinaire; close at hand an
unescorted lady, apparently French, was sipping a glass of champagne.

The count seemed satisfied with the results of his scrutiny, for he
turned to Topham with a smile. “Only the usual set,” he observed, “At
least, so far as I can see. Probably I alarm myself needlessly. So far
as I know, it is to no one’s interest to oppose me. You can think of no
one, eh! my friend?”

“I?” Topham stared at the man in surprise. “Of course not. I didn’t
know till today what you were after; and certainly I have never heard
anyone suggest any opposition. Why should they?”

The Brazilian laughed. “Why should they, indeed?” he answered, lightly.
He broke off, and Topham saw that he was watching some one.

The swish of a skirt just behind his chair and a faint perfume that
stole upon his senses warned the American not to look around too
suddenly. When he did manage to turn with sufficient casualness, he saw
two ladies and a gentleman taking their seats at a vacant table a few
feet away. The man’s face was toward him and he recognized him at once.
The girls’ backs were turned, but something familiar in the pose of one
of them set his heart to thumping.

Ouro Preto leaned forward, excitedly. “Do you know who they are?” he
demanded. “The ladies, I mean. I know the ambassador, of course, though
only by sight.”

Topham nodded. “I know one of them,” he declared. “One is Lord
Maxwell’s daughter. The other--”

But the Brazilian was not listening. “Did you see her face?” he
questioned. “Hers! The one to the right. She’s a wonderful creature!
Dios! Topham! I must meet her!”

Topham was still staring at the back of the girl who seemed familiar.
Surely it could not be--and yet--

She wore a wide basket hat, from beneath which little yellow tendrils
tumbled, shining red gold against her slender white neck. Topham was
sure he had seen those curls against that neck before. The delicate
poise of her head, too, was familiar. If she would only turn her head a
trifle--She did it, and Topham rose quickly to his feet. “Lillian!” he
gasped.

Ouro Preto’s voice reached his ear. “Do you know her?” he asked. “Can
you present me?”

Topham nodded. “Certainly! If she will give me permission,” he
answered. “Please excuse me while I recall myself to her.”




CHAPTER IX


Topham’s heart was light as he approached the table of the new
arrivals. Lillian Byrd was the last person he had expected to see in
Berlin. He had supposed her 3000 miles away at her home in Washington.
He had not seen her for two years--not since the day that she had
refused to marry him. He had known her pretty nearly all his life, but
he had not thought of her as a possible sweetheart until the day when
she had come back to her Washington home from college and met him there
on his first assignment to Washington duty after leaving Annapolis.

Deliberate in all things else, he, like all the men of his family, was
impetuous in love; and he had spoken to her almost at once. She had
laughed at him, but in a way that invited further pursuit. In fact, he
told himself she had deliberately kept him in tow until she could find
someone better. Unattached young men were scarce in Washington, and few
girls had a good-looking young naval officer utterly to themselves;
and Miss Byrd did not care to lose her cavalier. For the whole of one
Washington season she kept him; but when she came back the next fall
after a summer at Newport, she had changed. Perhaps it was because she
had made many more friends; perhaps it was because she had made some
one particular friend; at any rate, she did not care so much for his
attention--and she showed it. He reproached her, and demanded immediate
acceptance or final rejection. He got rejection, and instantly applied
for sea duty, hoping that absence would ease the pain.

Two years at sea had not made him forget. Either the lack of congenial
friends or something that struck deeper had kept her face always before
him. And then, in a day, in a moment, it had dimmed.

It seemed to Topham a very wonderful thing that he should meet her
again, at almost the moment when he had first seen another woman whose
image had effaced hers. For he no longer doubted what had happened to
him that afternoon.

He passed by her chair, then faced her and raised his hat.

“Good-evening, Miss Byrd,” he said, smilingly. With perfect
self-possession, the girl stared at him; then she held out her hand
with a glad smile.

“Lieutenant Topham!” she exclaimed, with sparkling eyes. “Oh! I _am_
glad.” That was ever the way with Lillian Byrd; the little emphasis
in her tones always singled out the one addressed and made him feel
himself the most important person in her world.

“Let me present you to Lord Maxwell,” she went on, warmly. “This
is Lieutenant Topham of the United States Navy, Lord Maxwell,” she
finished, with a flash of her marvellous eyes.

Lord Maxwell rose and held out his hand. “I already have the pleasure
of Mr. Topham’s acquaintance,” he declared. “My daughter, Ellen, Mr.
Topham.”

Topham bowed, and his lordship went on. “We are about to sample an
American drink, Mr. Topham,” he said, “One highly recommended by Miss
Byrd. It is, I believe, known as ice cream soda. Of course, it is
prepared here à la German, and I can not speak as to its merits. Will
you sit down and tempt fate with us?”

Walter laughed. “I shall be delighted,” he said, “but I have a friend
with me. If I might present him--”

Lord Maxwell glanced at the table, where Ouro Preto sat. “Ah! Yes! The
Count of Ouro Preto. I have heard of him. Present him by all means.”

Topham beckoned, and the count came over. Introductions followed. Lord
Maxwell offered Topham a seat beside his own, and the ladies made room
for Ouro Preto between them.

Lady Ellen, an undeveloped English girl, paused for something to say,
and Miss Byrd, true to American canons, rushed into the breach.

“Isn’t it lovely,” she gushed, addressing Ouro Preto. “We were just
admiring it all!”

Her voice and accent, like that of most Virginians, was low and
cultured, but to Topham, there seemed something almost English in her
locutions--something he had never noticed in the old days.

The count looked around as if he had never seen the place before.

“Heavens!” he exclaimed. “So it is!”

All laughed, Lillian most brightly of all. “One can tell that you are
used to it,” she mocked. “It takes strangers to note beauties--”

“Not always, Miss Byrd.”

“Oh!” Lillian clapped her hands, gaily. “Good!” she nodded. “But I
don’t mean beauties that you can see; I mean those you can hear. Stop!
Look! Listen!”

The night was clear. A near-by fountain chuckled in the moonlight; the
leaves overhead stirred, rustling in the wind that moved along the tree
tops. Far away, the mellow notes of a bugle sounded softly above the
tinkle of the glasses. Frogs croaked in basso from the ponds. A lion in
a near-by house roared, and a chorus of lesser animals answered.

“I always see in terms of sound,” explained Miss Byrd.

The ice cream soda was brought. The English tasted it gingerly; the
Americans hopefully. Ouro Preto gulped his and swore that it was
delicious.

Lord Maxwell turned to Topham and plunged into a technical discussion
of the future of the airship in war, leaving Ouro Preto to the
girls--that is to say, to Lillian, for Lady Ellen, unable to keep up,
contented herself with an occasional “Fancy!” coupled with glances full
of admiration for the two handsome creatures by her side.

Lord Maxwell, seeing them engrossed, dropped his voice. “I’m surprised
to see the count here,” he observed. “He and his sister are to see the
Emperor at eleven o’clock, aren’t they? That’s only two hours from
now.”

Topham started. He had been listening to his lordship, but he had been
watching Lillian, wondering how he could have thought her so beautiful.
The regular features, the peachy complexion, the melting blue eyes were
all there, but something had gone out of them, leaving them insipid.
Almost without thinking, he was comparing them with the rich coloring
of the Countess Elsa.

Lord Maxwell’s words startled him. He had distinctly understood Ouro
Preto to say that his approaching audience was set for the next day;
and he had certainly said nothing about his sister.

“Not tonight! Tomorrow,” he answered. “I’m surprised that you have
heard of it. I did not know the fact was generally known.”

“It isn’t,” rejoined his lordship, drily; “and it’s not for tomorrow;
it’s for eleven o’clock tonight. I suppose your government does not
object?”

Topham stared. He remembered that Ouro Preto had also inquired as
to possible objections. “Why should it,” he questioned, in some
bewilderment. “What has the United States to do with the creation or
re-creation of a German duchy?”

Lord Maxwell glanced sharply at the American, as if wondering whether
his words were as ingenuous as his tones. For a moment he hesitated;
then went on.

“One never can tell,” he remarked, lightly. “He is an old friend of
yours, I believe?”

Topham shook his head. “Not an old friend,” he corrected. “I only met
him today. He seems a very pleasant fellow.”

Lord Maxwell choked over the last of his soda. “I--ah--believe he is
noted for his--er--affectionate nature,” he murmured, when he recovered
his voice. “I should like to know whether the count’s friendship for
you survives his meeting with the Emperor. Come and see me in a few
days, won’t you, Mr. Topham?”

Topham smiled. “I wish I could,” he declared. “But I’m off tomorrow
afternoon!”

“Ah! Is it so? I’m sorry. I should have liked to see more of you.”
Lord Maxwell rose. “If you girls have seen enough,” he remarked,
suggestively; “I think we had better be going.”

With a muttered apology, Ouro Preto glanced at his watch; then leaped
to his feet with an exclamation. “A most important engagement,” he
declared. “I must take a cab and hurry. I had no idea it was so late.
Your fair kinswomen make the time fly, Lord Maxwell,” he continued. “I
have to thank them for a most delightful hour.”




CHAPTER X


The party of four started for the embassy on foot, taking their way
to where the Charlottenburg Drive cut straight through the noble
Thiergarten to the Branderberger Thor and the streets of old Berlin. A
few yards from the zoological garden the dazzle of the lamps died away,
and only the big stars, flaring in the heavens, lighted the broad white
road.

Divining the Americans’ wish to exchange reminiscences, Lord Maxwell
and his daughter stepped ahead, leaving the other two to follow.

The wind was rustling through the leaves; the air was damp but warm
and languorous; the night seemed made for sentiment. Topham felt it
and wondered what Miss Byrd expected him to say. Not knowing, he said
nothing.

Miss Byrd, however, either did not feel sentimental or preferred to
take another way to show it. “Well, Walter,” she began, “I suppose I
ought to ask about everybody and then you ought to ask about everybody
and by the time we have learned all about everybody, we should be at
the embassy saying good-night, without either of us knowing anything
we really wanted to know. So suppose we take everybody’s health for
granted and talk of things we really care about.”

Topham started. This girl was not the Lillian Byrd he had known.
Bright, witty, and attractive she yet seemed to him almost a stranger.
Perhaps, he pondered, it was because he no longer loved her, and
yet--and yet--the Lillian Byrd he had known of old had possessed a
very special air of refinement--one bringing memories of lavender and
stately homes and dear old-fashioned ladies, while this girl seemed
hardened, metallic, with a laugh that tinkled out of tune. He was
silent, not knowing what to say.

Miss Byrd noticed his hesitation and attributed it instantly to the
right cause.

“You think I’m changed, don’t you?” she demanded. “Oh! you needn’t
trouble to deny it! I _am_ changed. Goodness knows I’ve had enough to
change anybody. You didn’t know that I was that dreadful thing--a lady
journalist--did you? I am! I’m on the New York Gazette.”

“Good Heavens! You--you don’t mean that you are corresponding for
Risdon’s paper. How in the world--”

“That’s what I mean. I’ve been doing it for two years, and working for
the Gazette is mighty hard on refinement. I can pretend still if the
atmosphere is right. I haven’t forgotten the old airs and graces, and
I put them on at times--when I go back to Washington to see dear Aunt
Polly or when--well, tonight, for instance, when I had an object. But
they don’t fit any more, Mr. Topham; they don’t fit!”

There was a tremble in the girl’s voice that suggested tears and made
Topham feel acutely uncomfortable. The darkness hid his distress while
he sought unreadily for some response and found none.

Nor did the girl speak again at once. In silence the two walked on
through the fragrant night, the massed foliage rising on either side, a
network against the sky. Here and there white statues gleamed, ghostly
in the darkness, and at long intervals a street lamp cast a circle of
yellow light. From off to the right came the noise of running water
and the distant creak of oars or of cordage as some huge barge crept
slowly along the invisible Spree. Now and then an electric car swept
brilliantly along the drive.

At last the girl, with an obvious attempt at flippancy, spoke again.

“The new style comes easy to me,” she said; “so easy that I guess it
must be nearer my real self than the older one you used to know. I like
it, though I know I ought to be ashamed of it. I look back on the old
days as--as a divorceè looks back on her first honeymoon, I suppose--as
a mighty pleasant time but not for her any more.”

“But--but why--”

“Don’t you know. Hadn’t you heard about father? Really? Well, he lost
his place in the War Department and then the panic came along and took
his money; and then his health failed; and it was up to sister Eleanor
and poor silly me to look after him and Aunt Polly. There was nobody
else to do it, you see. Sister Eleanor got a job as social secretary
to one of those wild western senators, but nobody seemed to want yours
truly. I couldn’t get a Government post because dad had been in the
service so long that he had lost his residence in Kentucky, and of
course nobody from the District has a chance for appointment. So at
last it came down to a choice between seeing dad and Aunt Polly suffer
and becoming a reportress--how I used to loathe them! Mr. McNew liked
my style and sent me over to write up Europe six months ago. I’ve lived
and dad has had some comforts and I don’t think Europe has suffered
much. Anyway, it’s got to take its chance. I made friends with Lady
Ellen in England, and she invited me to visit her in Berlin, and here I
am. They like me because I am ‘so American’--when I want to be.”

“American! I thought you were very English tonight. You had the accent
pat.”

Miss Byrd laughed, a little harshly. “I always was a good mimic, wasn’t
I?” she asked. “Of course, it’s hard for Americans to learn English;
it’s so much like their own language. But, my word, old chappy, I
fawncy I’ve caught the bally idea, don’t you know?”

Topham chuckled. “You surely have!” he declared. “You fooled Ouro Preto
completely. He thinks you are English. Indeed, I shouldn’t wonder if he
thought you kin to Lord Maxwell.”

“Nor I,” returned Miss Byrd, drily. “You needn’t bother to undeceive
him, Walter. His belief may come in handy. He’s from Brazil, you know,
and I’m going to that out-of-the-way country, pretty soon.”

“Really?”

“Really! I’m going to do the east coast and perhaps the west coast for
the Gazette--write it up commercially, you know, in my racy style.”
The girl hesitated; then: “Oh! how I hate it all!” she burst out. “Oh!
Walter! Walter! Why didn’t you marry me while I was a real lady?”

Topham hesitated. He was not a ready talker, and such an opening called
for quick wit or mature consideration.

“Never mind! You needn’t answer! You dear good fellow! It was my fault,
of course. I had ideas above a young navy officer in those days. I
haven’t now. But don’t be afraid. I’m not fishing for a proposal. I
couldn’t live up to you now any more than I can live up to Aunt Polly’s
befo’ de wah standards.”

Topham looked at the girl with sadly mixed feelings. He assured
himself that his feeling for her, such as it was, had vanished. Yet
her seemingly cheerful renunciation was not altogether as welcome as
it should have been. While he was considering his answer, Miss Byrd
glanced at him out of the corner of her eye. “Who is she, Walter?” she
demanded.

Topham started in good earnest. Was his secret as plainly to be read as
that. “She?” he stammered.

“Of course! The one, the only she. Don’t tell me you haven’t met her,
for I know better.”

Topham found his tongue. “I never really saw ‘her’ till today,” he
said, hypocritically, with a smile and a bow. “Now that you have come--”

“Oh! nonsense! Walter! You never did know how to flirt. None of your
family ever did. Their directness in love is a tradition in Virginia.
You never were in love with me, really. So”--with a sudden change of
tone--“so you only ‘really’ met her today, did you? I suppose you’ll
ran off with her tomorrow--as your father did. But there! I won’t tease
you. Are you going back to God’s country soon?”

Topham drew a breath of relief. Most navy and army officers are
professional squires of dames and either flirt, gossip, or drivel
whenever they come into touch with a petticoat. But Topham, as
Miss Byrd had suggested, did none of these. Women, especially the
empty-headed ones who talked only personalities, thought him heavy.
Just what Miss Byrd thought did not appear.

“Not for a year, at least, I think,” he answered. “I am on my way now
to Tokio. My ship leaves Brindisi day after tomorrow and I must leave
tomorrow night to be sure to catch her. I came overland from Hamburg
and stopped over here to see Rutile, the secretary of our embassy. He
and your chief, Risdon, were both in my class at the naval academy.”

Miss Byrd listened carelessly. “So you are going to Japan, are you?
That means San Francisco sooner or later, of course. You’ll probably be
back in the United States before I am.”

“How long will you stay in Berlin?”

“No time at all. I go to England tomorrow, and sail for Brazil in a
month. Now that I’ve seen you and learned that you’ve found another
and are her’n, there’s nothing more for me to do here!” And Miss Byrd
laughed, not quite genuinely, perhaps.

Topham, however, noticed nothing amiss in her tones. “It’s superfluous
for me to say that I’m sorry you’re going,” he answered; “seeing that I
won’t be here myself. May I call and say good-by tomorrow?”

Miss Byrd hesitated. “You probably wouldn’t find me,” she declared
frankly. “I’m a working woman now and I’ve got to go and interview two
or three fussy old diplomats. I don’t know when I’ll be at home. But
I’m going to be at the American embassy some time in the afternoon,
and I’ll probably get a chance to say ‘auf wiedersehen’ there. Now,
good-night! Here we are at Lord Maxwell’s.”




CHAPTER XI


When Topham left Miss Byrd he went back to the American embassy. The
hour was late and the windows were all dark and the rooms seemed
deserted, and despite Rutile’s invitation for a moment Topham hesitated
to climb the stairs.

Finally he stepped to the entrance, intending to ask the
watchman-porter there whether the secretary had gone. To his
surprise--though not so greatly so as it would have been if he had
known German customs better--the door was ajar and the watchman
missing; so with a shrug of his shoulders he entered and climbed the
stairs.

A tap at the embassy offices brought immediate answer, and he opened
the door just as Rutile came to meet him.

“Come in, old man,” called the latter. “I’ve been sitting in the
moonlight thinking something out. I often do when I’ve got something
important on hand. Come and sit down and I’ll light up and we’ll have a
drink.”

Topham took the proffered chair, but declined the drink. “Not tonight,
thank you!” he decided. “And don’t light up for me. I like moonlight.
Queer about the moon, though. It affects most people the other way,
doesn’t it.”

“Maybe! But not me! I’m rather excitable, you know. Liable to get
worked up over things and to exaggerate their importance. When I
suspect I’m doing that, I sit down in the moonlight--if there’s a moon
handy--and in the stillness--if stillness is to be had--and think it
all over. That’s what I’ve been doing tonight.

“And did it soothe you?”

Rutile shook his head, doubtfully. “I’m not certain,” he admitted. “You
navy people have the best of it, after all. You haven’t got to agitate
your supposed brains. All you’ve got to do is to fight, and if you get
a chance to distinguish yourself the whole country knows it and the
Sunday newspapers call you heroes and clamor for your promotion. We
diplomats, on the other hand, are valuable in the inverse ratio that we
make it known.”

“Yes?” remarked Topham, languidly.

“Yes! Of course!” returned Rutile, impatiently. “We diplomats are the
real defenders of the peace. Suppose we had a war! All you fellows
could do would be to whip the enemy and if you did it you would get
medals and prize money and things. But I’ve prevented at least one
war and nobody knows anything about it except the last administration
at Washington and if there’s any deader tomb for a man’s achievements
than the last administration, I don’t know where it is--unless it’s the
administration before the last.”

Topham fidgeted. He was not very apt at speech. “What war did you
prevent?” he asked, at last, seeing that Rutile expected him to say
something.

“Oh! None of any special consequence,” returned the other
sarcastically, “Just a little bit of a war--one between Germany and the
United States.”

“You’re joking, aren’t you?”

“Never less so. His Majesty Wilhelm was working to grab southern
Brazil two or three years ago and I checkmated him; knocked his plans
sky-high. If I hadn’t we’d have had to fight him or abandon the Monroe
Doctrine. And just because I did it so quietly nobody knew anything
about it, bright young men like you want to know whether I am serious;
even the Ambassador has his doubts on the subject.”

Topham was not listening. Rutile’s mention of Brazil had given him the
opening he desired.

“That reminds me,” he said, awkwardly, “What do you think of Count Ouro
Preto and his sister? Risdon was speaking of them this morning, you
know. They’re Brazilians, aren’t they?”

Rutile swallowed. It is not altogether pleasant to be checked so
abruptly when talking about one’s self. Then he laughed.

“You’re the directest ever!” he remarked. “Why didn’t you tell me you
wanted to know about the Countess Elsa, and save me telling you a lot
of stuff you didn’t listen to? I suppose you have found out that it was
she who crossed with you?”

Topham stared. “Yes!” he said. “Risdon pointed her out on the street
this morning and I recognized her. How did you guess?”

“Oh! Easily! Her name really is Elsa Ferreira, you know. The title is
very new--one of Dom Pedro’s creations just before he was turned out by
the republic. So she’s been to New York! She’s been missing from here
for about three weeks, and people have been wondering where she was.”

“Tell me something about her.”

Rutile threw up his hands. “I haven’t time to do justice to the
subject,” he declared. “She came to Berlin about six months ago, and
promptly got the whole hoch wohlgebornen bunch at her feet, men and
women too. She’s beautiful, but it isn’t altogether her looks, you
know; it’s her amazing knowledge of men and things. They say she hired
out once as a chambermaid and at another time worked in a factory
here. They also say that she was the masked unknown who caused such
a sensation by dancing as Salome for charity in the most outrageous
costume that ever--”

“I don’t believe it!” Topham’s face was flushed and his eyes glittered.

Rutile studied him curiously. The dispatches Topham had brought had
been devoted wholly to the Count and Countess del Ouro Preto. The navy
officer did not know this, of course, but Rutile felt very sure that
he believed the two were behind the efforts that had been made to rob
him of them. Knowing the fascinations of the countess, the secretary
had little hesitation in guessing that Topham had fallen a victim to
them. He wanted to warn him, but scarcely knew how to begin. After all,
Topham was going away in twenty-four hours, and the first canon of
friendship is “don’t butt in.”

So he changed the subject. “Hope you enjoyed yourself tonight,” he
observed.

“Finely! I went to your Thiergarten and met several people I knew--Lord
Maxwell, the British Ambassador, and young Ferreira--the Count del Ouro
Preto, I should say--and--”

“Ouro Preto!” Rutile was startled. “What did he want?”

Topham considered. “Nothing!” he answered. “He was full of his coming
audience with the emperor and--”

“Audience with the emperor!” Rutile was on his feet. “What do you mean?
Has Ouro Preto seen the emperor?”

Topham drew out his watch and consulted it. “Well!” he said. “It’s now
12:45, so I may safely say that he has. He was to be received at eleven
o’clock tonight.”

“You’re sure?”

“Well! not entirely! Ouro Preto himself said the appointment was for
ten o’clock tomorrow, but Lord Maxwell said it was for eleven tonight,
and I suspect that Ouro Preto was mistaken.”

Rutile sat down again, slowly. “So do I,” he replied, drily. “But what
I most want to know is, why did he tell you about it?”

Topham laughed. “Oh! he was too full of it to keep still. Pure
spontaneousness!”

“Spontaneous fiddlesticks! What did _you_ say? What did he ask you?”

“Why! I don’t know! Nothing important. Let’s see. I believe he said he
feared somebody might oppose the restoration of the dukedom, and that
he was afraid to speak to most people about it, but that he could talk
to me because of course the United States had no interest--”

“Oh!”

“Eh? Yes! I told him of course we hadn’t. Queer, though! Lord Maxwell
asked me later almost the same thing. Wanted to know whether the United
States objected to the Kaiser giving Ouro Preto his toy? As if the
United States had any interest in petty German dukedoms!”

Rutile threw up his hands. “Lord! Lord!” he cried. “I suppose you told
Maxwell that?” he queried.

“Of course. What the devil is the matter with you, Rutile?”

For an instant the secretary stared at the navy officer, without
speaking. “Look here, Topham,” he said at last. “I want to know
whether you are the guileless child I have always supposed you to be,
or whether you are so infernally deep that even I can’t fathom you.
Confound you, man, you’ve had me guessing ever since you got here.
You--”

Abruptly the secretary broke off and leaned forward. “What’s that?” he
questioned, whisperingly.

The night was very still. Traffic in the street outside had almost
ceased--for the moment had ceased altogether. Not even a footfall
sounded. But from somewhere close at hand there came a slight grating
sound.

“Sounds like somebody sawing,” muttered Topham. “What--

“Sshh!” A grin of perfect comprehension came over Rutile’s face.
“Gently!” he whispered. “Somebody’s trying to break into the embassy’s
rooms. And I think I can guess who it is. But we’ll give him the
surprise of his life. Come.”

He arose and tiptoed to the door of the adjoining room, and opened it
cautiously. Like the one in which the two had sat, this room was dark
except for the brilliant moonlight that streamed in at the uncurtained
windows. It was empty, but the sound of the sawing was much more
distinct. Evidently the would-be intruder was close at hand.

Silently Rutile approached the door that gave upon the corridor without
and pointed to the lock. Something was moving in and out just above
it, and in a moment Topham distinguished the blade of a saw working
through the woodwork. Four augur holes had been bored at the corners
of an imaginary square, and some one was slowly joining them, with the
evident intention of making an opening through which he might slip his
arm and shoot back the bolts.

Rutile looked at Topham with twinkling eyes. With a gesture for silence
he tiptoed to a closet and with infinite caution took out a light but
strong rope.

This he handed to Topham. “You’re a sailor,” he said under his breath.
“Make a dip noose.”

With an instant understanding of what he proposed, Topham hastily
knotted the line, and returned it to the secretary. The latter stepped
close to the door, where the saw had almost completed its work, and
stood waiting.

Soon the saw was drawn back, a finger appeared through the augur hole,
closed around the edge of the square and exerted a gentle pressure.
With scarcely a sound the wood yielded, and the piece was drawn gently
out.

With baited breath the two men waited. Evidently those without were
listening. Then an arm came through the hole and a hand began to feel
for the key. Instantly Rutile slipped his rope around the wrist, drew
it tight, and threw himself back on the rope.

A startled exclamation came from the outside, and then the prisoned
man began a desperate though silent struggle for liberty. But he was
at a terrible disadvantage. Inch by inch, his arm was drawn until his
body was fast against the door; then there was a sudden yielding. “My
God,” cried a voice. “Stop! You’re killing me. I surrender. I’ll tell
everything. I’ll-- Stop! Stop! Don’t strike! I’ll keep faith. I’ll--”
The words ended with a thick choking hiccough.

“Hold this, Topham,” ordered Rutile, passing over the rope. “I’ll ring
for the police.”

He pressed the burglar alarm on the wall, lighted the gas and was back
at the door. “Now we’ll see what we’ve caught,” he declared, turning
the key in the lock.

The door swung open and, with the relaxing of the rope, a man’s body
pitched down upon the threshold and lay there, his upturned face
ghastly in the glare of the gas jets. From his breast projected the
handle of a dagger, whose blade had been driven in to the hilt, and,
and across the white bosom of his shirt a crimson stain was widening.
It needed no second glance to see that he was dead.

Rutile studied the dark face. “Looks like a Spaniard or a
Spanish-American,” he decided. “Just about what I would have expected.
But I never saw him before!”

Topham said nothing. His brain was whirling. For he, at least, had seen
the man’s face before. It was that of the Spanish-American who had
given him the drugged cigarette--of the man whom he had seen only a
few hours before coming down the steps of the building that housed the
Countess Elsa.




CHAPTER XII


The attempted burglary at the American Embassy made quite a stir, not
only in Berlin but in America. That it did not make a greater one was
due to the fact that no one except Rutile and Topham suspected that it
was anything more than the simple attempt at burglary that it seemed;
and both Rutile and Topham had their own reasons for concealing their
suspicions.

The attempt was therefore ascribed simply to a desire for plunder;
that it might have political significance was not even publicly
suggested. So far as Rutile knew, Risdon was the only one to smell
even the smallest rat; and Risdon, having absolutely no information
concerning the letter Topham had brought, knew nothing that connected
Ouro Preto with the incident. He therefore found so little on which to
base a story, that he cabled only a vague surmise that nobody paid any
attention to.

But despite the fact that few people suspected any particular mystery
in the motive, everybody took a very great interest in the crime. The
dead man was plainly not a common thief. His clothing was good and his
person showed evidences of refinement. He was unknown to the police,
and was therefore presumably not a member of the ordinary criminal
classes. Very obviously, too, he had been murdered by his companion to
do away with any chance that he might betray that companion’s identity.

Few criminals go so far as to murder a “pal” under such circumstances,
and from this it was argued that the accomplice must be a man who
had much more than the ordinary at stake. In other words, it seemed
very probable that he was a Raffles in real life. Naturally, such a
suggestion was nuts to the newspaper men and they used it to the full.

Topham and Rutile shrank from discussing the subject with each other,
and from resuming the broken-off conversation of the night before. It
was easy enough to avoid further talk at first. The police had come
promptly and had done what they had to do with neatness and dispatch.
But it all took time and when it was over the dawn was at hand and the
two young men went off to their beds, glad of the excuse to postpone
explanations.

But Topham could not stay away from the Embassy all the next day. He
was leaving in the afternoon and to absent himself would have been more
significant than anything he could say. So about noon he went to the
embassy, uncertain just what he would say but resolved not to shirk any
question that might rightfully be asked of him.

As he approached the door he saw Caesar standing on the steps staring
around him with wildly rolling eyeballs. Evidently he was looking for
someone, but as his eyes passed over Topham without pausing, the latter
did not guess that he himself was the object of the darkey’s solicitude.

Only when he was quite near he spoke. “Well, Caesar!” he questioned,
“Can’t you find him?”

“Find who?” The negro whirled round. “Fore Gord, Massa Topham! Whar
you come from. If I ain’t been a-lookin’ an’ a-lookin foh you! Massa
Rutile’s mighty anxious to see you, suh. Please to walk up to his room,
suh. Please, suh!”

Topham ascended the stairs slowly and pushed open the door of the
secretary’s office.

Rutile was bending over a huge atlas, but when the navy officer entered
he pushed it aside. “Hello! Topham,” he called. “I was getting anxious
about you. Your train goes pretty soon, doesn’t it?”

Topham nodded. “In an hour or so,” he answered, quietly.

“I thought as much. Well! We haven’t much time to waste and I will
come right to the point. I want you to believe that what I am going
to say I say as a representative of the United States to an officer
of the United States Navy. I don’t want to pry into your affairs. But
I do want all the information I can get about the Count of Ouro Preto
and his sister--No! let me go on--Risdon told me of your agitation on
meeting the countess on the street yesterday. I know myself that you
are interested in her. I know, too, that Ouro Preto was trying to pump
you last night. We both know more about your trip across the ocean
than we perhaps care to say. We both suspect much about that so-called
burglary. But the point of it all is that the United States is greatly
interested in this Ouro Preto matter--in anything that concerns
Germany and Brazil for that matter. I have seen Lord Maxwell. He is
positive that Ouro Preto saw the emperor last night and he believes
that the Kaiser has offered to recognize his claims to that dukedom
on conditions. What these conditions are I don’t know, and it may be
important that I should. You are leaving for Japan and will be out of
the way later. Now, can’t you tell me anything that would throw light
on the matter?”

“On the question of the dukedom?” he asked. “Not a thing. Absolutely
nothing!”

Rutile hesitated. “I don’t want to offend you, old man,” he burst out.
“But I must go on. There is a big game afoot, and the Ouro Preto may
well wish to keep in touch with a navy officer. The countess Elsa may
be fooling you and--”

“Stop!” Topham leaned forward. “I don’t misunderstand you, Rutile, my
friend,” he said. “You are quite right from your point of view, and I
will tell you all I may. First, though, I must tell you that today I
asked the Countess Elsa to marry me--”

“Marry you!” Rutile sprang to his feet.

“To marry me,” reiterated the navy man, steadily, “and she accepted
me--provisionally. I am to go away now and come for her in a year.
During the year, I am neither to see her nor write to her. She
said that--that my honor was at stake. I did not know what she
meant. Her words, however, are significant. They may confirm your
suspicions--whatever these are. More, I recognized the man who was
murdered last night outside that door yonder.”

“You did!”

“Yes! He came over on the steamer with me. I smoked a cigarette he had
given me just before I was taken ill. I saw him at the hotel of the
countess yesterday. I do not doubt that he and the count and perhaps
the countess have tried to get those papers from me.”

“And yet--”

“And yet I love her and hope to marry her. That she and her friends
tried to rob me is of no importance. It’s high politics. Murder is
different, but she, of course, had no hand in that and probably none in
the burglary. That would be Ouro Preto’s part.”

Rutile nodded. “Very probably,” he agreed.

“I tell you this,” Topham went on, “because I am an officer of the
United States, sworn to its service. No navy officer has any right to
hold confidential secrets that may be inimical to his country. The
countess herself would be the first to say so. I do not feel called
upon to take my knowledge to the police, but my country is certainly
entitled to it. Of course you are at liberty to use it in any way the
interests of the United States may demand.”

“Of course,” Rutile gasped. Topham’s words seemed to have dumbfounded
him. He had intended to denounce the Ouro Pretos--to show Topham the
instructions he had received concerning them and warn him against them.
But the navy officer’s amazing declaration upset his plans. Topham knew
everything of importance--and did not care. Very well! Let him dream
away his year of probation; he would be far out of reach away off there
in Japan, and at the end of that time the countess could be relied on
to cast him over.

“Have--have you seen the countess today?” he questioned. “Does she know
that--”

Topham’s face flushed. “The countess told me yesterday that she was
leaving Berlin at once,” he said, coldly. “So I was not surprised to
find her gone when I went to her hotel this morning.” He rose. “That is
absolutely all I know,” he finished. “Now I must be off.”

“Not just yet.” Rutile flung out his hand impulsively. “Not until I
have thanked you, old man. I know how hard it is for you to tell me all
this, and I appreciate your doing it. And I want to congratulate you.
The countess is the most beautiful and brilliant woman I ever knew. You
will find yourself much envied when the news is known.”

Topham took the hand the other extended. “Thank you, old fellow,” he
murmured.

“And,” went on the secretary, banteringly, “if I ever suggested that
you were slow, I want to take it all back. You’re the swiftest ever.
To stop over in Berlin two days and carry off the biggest prize in the
matrimonial market sure does break the record!”

Topham grinned. “It was rather quick,” he admitted. “It’s a way we
Tophams have.” Then he glanced at the clock above the desk. “My hour’s
up,” he exclaimed. “Good-by, Rutile. Tell Risdon I’m sorry not to have
seen him again. Good-by.”

When he was gone Rutile stood for a moment gazing out of the window.
Then he swore aloud. “It’s a damned shame,” he muttered. “Topham’s the
most open-hearted fellow I ever knew, the very sort to take a woman’s
word for gospel. Great Scott, how does she do it?” He took a turn or
two up and down the room. “After all, though,” he went on, thinking
aloud. “It isn’t how she does it. It’s why does she want to do it? What
use can Topham be to her in Japan? What possible use can he be to her?”

It never occurred to the secretary that the countess might be in
earnest.




CHAPTER XIII


“Are you really going?”

“Really.” Miss Byrd nodded. “Yes! I’m off tonight. My stay in Berlin
has been delightful, largely because you have made it so, Mr. Rutile,
but I hate to go. But business is business; and this stone doesn’t
gather any moss unless she keeps on rolling. So--” she paused.

She was pale and her delicate features seemed a trifle pinched; her
lips had not their usual redness. But her tones were brisk and her
manner gay.

Rutile studied her consideringly. His naturally impulsive nature had
been modified by training and was held in bond by his will.

“I too have found your stay delightful,” he said slowly. “I only wish
I could have made it sufficiently pleasant to you to cause you to stay
longer in spite of the loss of moss. When shall we meet again?”

Miss Byrd looked him frankly in the eyes; it suddenly occurred to
Rutile that he had not realized their depth and color. “Who knows?”
she questioned, lightly. “If I lose my job, I may have to go back to
Washington; and all diplomats have to go there sooner or later to look
after their jobs. So we may meet again in Washington--if it is written
that we are to meet at all.”

Rutile nodded. “If it isn’t, it shall be,” he declared. “And I don’t
think it will be in Washington, either; I’ve got a hunch that we are
to--well, see exciting times together. Didn’t you ever feel like that
about anybody?”

“Often!” Miss Byrd giggled. “I called this morning on the high
well-geborn field marshal Sweinpeltz and I felt that way the minute I
saw him. And it came true within ten seconds. My! You should have heard
him swear.”

“Swear?”

“Well, ‘Mein Gott’ is swearing, isn’t it? He said that three times the
first question I asked him. Seriously, though, Mr. Rutile, I hope I
shall see you again. Just now, I’m bound for Brazil, as you know. Any
little commission I can execute for you in Buenos Ayres or Pernambuco
or anywhere?”

Rutile moved a little restlessly in his chair. His eyes avoided those
of the girl. “Well, yes!” he said. “There is something, but I hardly
know how to ask you. It is a little--awkward.”

Miss Byrd shrugged her shoulders. “Why should it be?” she asked, “You
have thought it? If you have thought it of me, it must be perfectly
proper. Therefore, put it into words just as you thought it? I permit
you.”

“Thank you! I’ll take you at your word.”

Rutile considered for a moment. Clearly he was marshalling his ideas.
Miss Byrd’s newspaper training, brief as it had been, had taught her
the advisability of letting her victims have all the rope they wanted.
Rutile was not a victim, but the principle was the same. So she waited
in silence.

“There are two young Brazilians here,” he began at last, “Who came to
Berlin some weeks ago on a peculiar errand. They are the Count of Ouro
Preto and his sister. Perhaps you know of them?”

Miss Byrd nodded. “Certainly I do. I wrote them up in my best style
a week ago. Haughty grand duke. Fascinating ballet girl. Beautiful
daughter. Dashing piratical adventurer. Mad love. Flight. Adventurer
becomes governor and accumulates enormous wealth. Children seek
rehabilitation of ballet girl. Prove that she was descended from
Noah’s ark. Haughty Wilhelm refuses even to see ’em. America demands in
thunder tones why he doesn’t grant her panatella children their rights.
Hip! Hip! Hurrah! Anything the matter with that?”

“Nothing!” Rutile shrugged his shoulders slightly, but laughed
admiringly as he did so. “Nothing much, that is, only the essential
detail that Wilhelm has seen them and seems to have promised to give
them what they ask.”

“Really?” Miss Byrd’s eyes danced. “Really? That’s fine! May I use it?
My story isn’t printed yet and I can change it by cable.”

“You may say he has seen them and is considering the matter if you
like, but I wouldn’t say outright that he has granted their request. I
don’t know that he has. If he has it was probably on conditions. What I
want to know is what those conditions were.”

The girl’s expression changed instantly. She drew her breath quickly.
Rutile’s tones hinted a story, and a “story” had come to be the great
thing in her life as it is in every newspaper writer’s.

“_You_ want to know?” she echoed. “Officially or not officially? As
United States representative or as an individual?”

“Both! Brazil has a large German population; and any dealings between
the Kaiser and Brazilians are of interest to the United States. It’s a
pretty big thing Ouro Preto has asked, and if the Kaiser does it, the
United States would like to know why. That’s official! But there’s the
unofficial side of it. I have a friend who is here for a day or two--a
navy officer named Topham.”

“Oh!” Miss Byrd started. “I know him,” she added, after an instant’s
hesitation.

“Really?” Very plainly Rutile was taken aback. He took a moment to
consider. “If I had known that you knew him,” he went on, at last, “I
think I should not have broached the subject; and yet, after all, I
think I am justified. I should not be a real friend if I did not try to
help him--and he needs help. You will understand, of course, that what
I am going to say is confidential.”

“Certainly.”

“Topham got here yesterday morning. It seems that he crossed from New
York with the countess, who had slipped away from Berlin without anyone
being the wiser. Topham left her at Hamburg. But yesterday morning he
saw her on the street, and was much stirred up. In the afternoon he
called on her. Now, not an hour ago, just before he started for his
train, he tells me that she has promised to marry him. Isn’t it the
most preposterous--”

“Not at all! Not at all! It’s splendid! Splendid! Just the sort of
thing Walter Topham would do. It’s traditional with his family.
Everybody in Virginia knows what the Tophams are. They have run off
with their wives--or with other men’s--for three hundred years. They
are slow and careful in most things, but when they fall in love--really
in love--they sweep everything before them. Oh! I know them! I told
Walter last night that I knew he was in love.”

“But the countess!”

“We--ll!” Miss Byrd raised her eyebrows and flashed an amused glance at
the secretary. “Well! Why not?” she questioned. “A girl, countess or
not, doesn’t often get a chance at a man like Walter, and I guess she’s
not very conventional herself, is she? With her ancestry--”

“But it’s not possible! She’s fooling him--playing with him. It’s
all bound up in some way with this dukedom business. She’s using
him--though for the life of me, I can’t see how. Perhaps I could guess
if I knew the Kaiser’s conditions; and if I did know them I might save
him. That’s my unofficial reason for wanting to know. If you are a
friend of Topham’s you will help me.”

“Of course! But I’ll help you more because you ask me to, for I believe
the engagement is bona fide, preposterous as it may seem. What do you
want me to do?”

Rutile leaned back in his chair. “That depends!” he answered. “Perhaps
nothing at all. But when you get to Brazil find out all you can about
the Ouro Pretos. They’re very prominent people. Perhaps the Kaiser’s
conditions may be known down there before they are up here. There may
be a big newspaper story in it, but if there is I rely on you to keep
Topham’s name out. Again, there may be nothing. But if you’ll keep me
informed of anything that may develop, whether you print it or not, you
may do a service to Topham and also to the United States. Will you do
it?”

“Will I? Of course I will.”




CHAPTER XIV


“Say, Topham! I’m mighty glad to see you.” Stites, secretary of
legation in Tokio, lifted his wine glass and leaned across the spotless
cloth. “Mighty glad to see you. A glass of wine with you, old man.”

Topham lifted his glass and smiled. “Thank you,” he answered. “It makes
a fellow feel good to be welcomed like this. You people have been
mighty good to me.”

“Oh! Well!” Stites laughed. “We’ll show you the other side of it
tomorrow.”

The two young men sat at a little round table at the English Hotel
where nightly the foreigners and the fashionable world of Tokio dined
and criticized each other’s clothes. Around them were men and women
of all types--Germans, English, a few Americans, fewer French, many
Japanese, some in native dress and others looking strangely awkward
in European garments. Little dark waiters slipped swiftly, though not
hurriedly, through the throng. The hum of conversation, punctuated
by the click of ice on the rims of delicate glasses rose above the
thrumming of the quaint oriental music. The night was heavy with the
perfume of lilies. Far away, through the broad windows, across the
roofs of the city, the bay gleamed silvery in the moonlight.

Topham took it all in. “It’s beautiful,” he said. “Beautiful! I’ve
never been to Japan before and it--well, it’s overpowering.”

“Of course! Everything is, in this country. We’ve got maids at the
embassy--the custom of the country, my boy--that are dreams of
loveliness. Madame l’Ambassadrice objected and to please her I tried to
get ugly ones. Nothing doing, my boy. There aren’t any in Japan--except
those that wear Melican man’s clothes.”

Topham smiled. “I like it,” he said.

“Oh! Do you, indeed! Naturally you would. All sailors do. But look
out, old man. Times aren’t what they used to be. Don’t trust the old
romances on Japan or you’ll get into trouble.”

“I won’t.” Topham stared around him. All about were interesting-looking
men and pretty women. “Who’s that?” he asked. “The tall man at the
table to your right?”

“That’s Cosdon, the British naval attaché! There’s the Spanish attaché
just beyond. Most of the attachés dine here. I’ll introduce you to a
bunch of them after a while. You’ll be the whole works at our shop, you
know. We haven’t had any sort of attaché, navy or army, for six months.
And we’ve needed ’em; needed ’em like the devil.”

“Why?”

“Why what? Why did we need them? Well, you can’t play chess without
pawns. You fellows are the pawns. We diplomats can’t play spy, you
know; but you navy and army men are licensed.”

Topham raised his eyebrows. “Why not use the natives?” he asked; “or
are they too patriotic?”

“Patriotic nothing! That’s all bunkum just like the jiu jitsu. The Japs
are no better than any other nation and I guess they’re a little worse.
They’ve got cowards and traitors just like other people--maybe more
so. But you can’t trust traitors, you know; they won’t stay hitched.
Besides, we need skilled men. The Chief has been cabling to Washington
for attachés for six months, but the cotillions didn’t seem willing
to spare anybody until you came. And they sent you in the end by the
longest way round.”

Topham looked his sympathy. It had been three months since he had left
Berlin. The Nevada, which he had joined at Brindisi, had dawdled along
via Port Said, Aden, and Singapore and had reached Manila just too late
to enable him to catch the swift, direct passenger steamer for Japan
and compelling him to take a much slower and roundabout boat.

“I could have come quicker,” he admitted. “But the Nevada needed a
watch officer, and--”

“And so you spent three months in coming by water instead of ten days
coming by Siberian railway. And all the while the need for you here was
increasing. I understand you speak Japanese, Topham.”

“A little!”

“Only a little?” The secretary was disappointed. “That’s bad--unless
it’s only your beastly polite way of disdaining knowledge. Well! you’ve
got your work cut out for you here! The Japs mean to fight us, and we
have been grossly negligent in preparing for them. We haven’t even
informed ourselves as to the extent of their preparations. The Chief
has done what he could, but it hasn’t been much.”

Topham leaned back and let his eyes rove over the expanse of city and
bay beneath the windows. No scene could be more peaceful. War seemed
to him far-off and impossible.

“You really think they mean to fight?” he questioned. His tones
expressed doubt, though much less than he felt.

“Of course! Of course! No doubt at all! They want to fight and they
will fight. The only question is as to when they’ll fight. Japan means
to be the England of the Pacific, and she means to dominate China,
including Corea and Manchuria. The open door--Bah! No Japanese intends
to allow it a moment longer than he must. Oh! they’ll fight! And
they’re getting ready to fight now.”

Topham listened respectfully. Listening was Topham’s long suit. But he
did not for an instant believe.

“Is there anything new,” he asked. “Things seemed quiet enough in
Manila. Of course, I was there for only a day and hadn’t much time to
pick up details. There was something in one of the papers about some
trouble in San Francisco, I believe; but--”

“That’s the opening. A sort of gambit, you know. The Japs there claim
they have a treaty right to send grown Japanese men to study in the
public schools with white boys and girls--girls, you understand. It’s
intolerable, of course! But they are using it as a pretext to stir
up bad blood. They’re cunning. They are trying to make capital for
themselves in Europe and particularly in England. Blood is thicker
than water and they’ll have to have a mighty good excuse for war with
the United States if they want England’s sympathy. And what’s more,”
the secretary leaned forward, “I have reason to believe that they are
dickering with Germany!”

Topham started and picked up his glass hastily, to mask his movement.
Since he had met the Countess Elsa, any mention of Germany made his
pulses stir.

“Natural enough, isn’t it?” he questioned. “Of course Japan would want
to be on good terms with Germany. Probably she would like to be on
terms with France, too; and perhaps even with Russia. But why should
that mean anything against the United States. Frankly, Stites, I’m from
Missouri on the Japanese question. You’ll have to show me!”

“Events will do that all right,” rejoined the other, a trifle grimly.
“But, with Germany, it’s scarcely a question. Ever since that woman got
here--”

“What woman?”

“The smartest, prettiest woman I ever knew and that’s saying something.
Say, Topham, did you ever play stud-poker?”

“Well, I’ve _heard_ of it,” admitted the officer, grinning.

“Oh! Have you? Well! you know how it’s played? The dealer deals one
card around face down, and everybody looks at it secretly. Then he
deals around again and again, card by card, all face up, until each man
has a full poker hand. After each round, you bet what you like. All
the cards in all the hands except one are exposed. It’s the one secret
card that makes the doubt in the game. Only one card, and yet it makes
the game more exciting than if all five were hidden. Well! diplomacy is
much like that--especially diplomacy as this woman plays it. She has
shown all her cards except one--what Germany is to get out of it all. A
mighty clever woman, Topham, and as pretty as she is clever.”

“Who is she?”

“Well, now, who knows. She calls herself--” the secretary broke off
and craned his neck, trying to make out more clearly the identity of
a little group of people who had just entered the dining-room. “She
usually comes here to dine,” he went on, slowly, “And maybe--yes! There
she is. She’s the lady approaching--the one in grey. She calls herself
the Countess Elsa del Ouro Preto. Sounds Spanish, but she is really
German as they make ’em.”

Topham never knew how he got to his feet. There was a roaring in his
ears and the lights danced around him. Only one thing held steady--the
splendid eyes of the Countess Elsa.

She was coming toward him. Her tiny jewelled slippers made no sound on
the mats that covered the floor, but her silken robes swished as she
moved. In the aureole of her hair trembled a single diamond; a belt of
rubies clasped her waist. Ah! How beautiful she was. How she fitted
into the scheme of things in this bizarre eastern world! Topham’s glass
shattered in his hand and the pieces tinkled on the floor as he looked.

Then she saw him. For an instant the traitor blood ebbed to her
heart, leaving her face whiter than man had ever seen it before.
Then it rushed back in a crimson tide, burning. But she walked on.
Her eyes held Topham’s for a second; then wandered indifferently
past. Carelessly she turned to the huge blonde German who walked by
her side--a man with the broad ribbon of the Black Eagle across his
breast--and made some laughing remark. Indifferently, without sign of
recognition, she passed--passed to where an obsequious waiter held a
chair ready.

Topham’s legs gave way under him. It needed not the protests of the
horror-stricken secretary to drag him down into his chair.

“For God’s sake, man! Careful! Everybody is watching you! Do you know
her?”

Topham shook his head slowly. “I thought I did,” he muttered. “But--I
do not.”




CHAPTER XV


At last it was over. The intolerable evening had dragged itself to
an end. Topham had laughed and joked and made merry far beyond his
custom or his nature, trying to dull the sting at his heart and to
conceal from Stites and his companions the misery that oppressed him.
He had met scores of men and women; had received dozens of informal
invitations from the men; and had laid the foundations of many
friendships.

But all the while he was longing to be alone--to get time to think
what was portended by this amazing apparition of the woman he loved.
At last, when the throng had thinned; when the last of his new-made
friends had nodded himself away; when even Stites had left him with
a warning that on the morrow he would “show him some stunts”, Topham
wandered to the edge of the broad terrace in front of the hotel and sat
down to think.

The night was redolent of perfume. The gardens--the wonderful Japanese
gardens where all sense of distance is lost and one wanders through
miles of woodland, climbs mountains, and crosses lakes, all in the
space of a few yards--stretched around him, limitless and mysterious.
No moon shone, but the planets globed themselves in the star-dusted
heavens and cast a pale radiance over meadow and wood. A soft night
wind, warm and caressing, whispered of the age-old mystery of the east.
From far away rose the murmur of the city stirring in its invisible
homes. The night birds called from the bushes.

Insensibly the calm stole on Topham’s senses, and his whirling thoughts
composed themselves. The Countess had reached Tokio before him; from
what Stites said she had been there for several weeks at least; most
likely she had left Berlin almost as soon as he had, and had come by
way of Russia and Port Arthur.

Why was she there? Had she come because of him or for some reason of
her own? Had she known that he was under orders for Tokio before she
met him in Berlin and could her kindness have concealed some plan to
use him--him a naval officer in the United States service? Or was
she really ignorant that he was bound for the east. He could not
remember having told her, and she might very well not have known his
destination--might have understood him to be permanently attached
to the Nevada. Remembering what she had said of a task that she was
working out, he could not but think that her presence in Japan had to
do with that task.

If she were on an errand of her own, what was it? He remembered that
Rutile had believed that the Kaiser would set conditions for the
restoration of the lost duchy; probably the countess was trying to
fulfill these conditions.

But what were the Kaiser’s conditions. Shrink as he might from
questioning the acts of the woman he loved, he could not forget the
role that Stites had ascribed to her. Putting beside this her own
assertions that association with her spelled peril to his honor the
obvious explanation was that she was engaged in some proceeding
inimical to his country--some conspiracy that it was his duty as an
officer of the United States to discover and to crush.

He set himself to studying out the possible objects of a possible
conspiracy. Clearly it involved Japan. But how? The obvious explanation
was that it had to do with trade--the open door--Manchuria--China; but
somehow Topham doubted whether the obvious explanation were the true
one. He remembered Stites’s assertion that Japan was preparing for war
with the United States. But what had Germany to do in such a war, even
if it should be contemplated? What could she possibly gain that would
balance even the loss that would result from the disturbance of trade?
The Kaiser had been angry when the United States seized the Philippines
years before, but having held his wrath then, how could he hope to
profit by it now? If Japan got the better of the struggle, the spoils
would go to her and not to Germany. On its face, a Japanese-German war
conspiracy against the United States was preposterous.

Yet he could not doubt that Germany was in some way for some reason
involved. But how? But how? Mortified self pride played no part in
Topham’s reflections. Although the Countess had “cut” him in the
dining-room, decidedly, unmistakably, the fact had almost ceased to
trouble him. She might have very good reasons for not desiring to seem
to know him at that moment; he was content to wait for an explanation.
Besides, he had more important things to think about.

A clatter of clogs on the stones of the terrace and a rustling of
garments aroused him and he looked around to find a Japanese maid
bowing profoundly in the starlight just behind his right shoulder.

“Hello!” he exclaimed, startled. “What want?”

The girl closed her fan with a clash just as he had seen her sisters do
it many a time on the stage in America.

“Ees thees the honorable Meester Topham?” she asked in a high harsh
voice.

Topham nodded. “Yes!” he said, briefly. “You look for me, eh?” he
questioned, inanely.

“He-e-e-sh!” The girl giggled. It struck Topham that there was
something artificial about that giggle. It sounded stagy. Besides there
was nothing for the girl to laugh at--unless it were himself. He moved
uncomfortably.

“The honorable meester want to see honorable lady?”

“Ah!” Topham drew in his breath sharply. So this was it!

“Yes! Yes!” he answered, eagerly. “You come from her? Where is she?

“You love--honorable lady?” squeaked the girl.

Topham was past caution now. “More than life,” he cried. “Take me to
her! Quick!”

The girl bowed humbly. “Honorable gentleman follow,” she commanded and
turned away down a white path that led into the depths of the garden.

Topham followed eagerly. All around him the grasses rustled in the
night breeze. The crossed branches of the trees rubbed softly against
each other. The scent of the water lilies grew sweeter.

So she brought him to the margin of a tiny lake set in the midst of
turf that sank like velvet beneath his feet. There beside a carved
statue of an unknown god she paused, and he paused, too, waiting for he
knew not what.

Tiny wavelets broke on the white pebbles. The lily pads rocked on them,
rising and sinking, shimmering white in the starlight. Suddenly the
girl stood up, rising for the first time to her full height.

“Walter!” she cried. “Walter! Walter!”

Topham did not speak. He could not. But he held out his arms and drew
her to his heart. “Elsa!” he murmured, after a while, and again, “Elsa!
Elsa!”

She stirred in his arms. “I love you! I love you!” she murmured. “Ah!
Do you know that I nearly fainted when you faced me there tonight!
Cruel! Cruel! Not to give me warning!”

Topham drew her closer. “I did not know!” he breathed. “I did not
know. And yet how could I not know?”

Gently the countess freed herself. “Sit down,” she ordered. “Here!
Where I can touch you, but not where I can look into your eyes. I--I
could not trust myself else. Do you know dear, you have wonderful eyes.”

Topham laughed. “I! Nonsense! You mean that _you_ have!”

“No! I mean you have. There is enchantment in them, if you like. How
else could a single glance from them across a crowded street bring
me--me--Elsa de Ouro Preto--to your feet. My face burns when I think
how I fell into your arms--and yet I would not have it otherwise. Dios!
Walter! What have you done to me?”

“Not more than you have done to me--”

“Hush! There is no time. I shall be missed and then--”

“Missed. Who--”

“Now! Now! Now! No one you need trouble your head about. But let me
talk. I am here on a political mission--you must have guessed that.
I cannot let you become involved in it. There are reasons--you will
not ask me for them--but there are good reasons why you must not be
suspected of any association with me or my work.”

Topham’s eyes grew troubled. “Tell me one thing,” he begged. “Tell me--”

“No! No! I can tell you nothing. I will not lie to you and I can not
tell you the truth. You may suspect what you please. It is your right.
But you may not ask me anything. It would do no good and might do
much harm. That is why I pretended not to know you in the dining-room
tonight. That is why I have slipped out to you in this guise. I could
not come in any other. It is best that no one should know that you know
me!”

“May I not meet you? May I not be presented? May I not--”

The countess’s breath came faster. “No! No!” she gasped. “No! No! I
could not bear it. Besides there will be no chance. I leave tomorrow.”

The blood flowed back to Topham’s heart. Unconsciously his grasp upon
the girl tightened until she could have screamed from very pain.
“Tomorrow!” he muttered. “Tomorrow! Tomorrow!”

“I must.” The woman was sobbing. “I must! Duty calls. I have to leave
for America--for Washington--for your own country, where I must work
out my task. Where it will lead--what its consequences will be--God
knows! I would give it up if I could, but I am bound by a promise to
the dead. Dead lips can not give back the spoken word and I must go on.
Ah!”--she turned and flung her arms fiercely around the man--“Ah! I am
mad!--insane! But I love you! I love you!”

Over the shadowy pool the night mist hung, wavering in the starlight.
A distant cataract--or was it a near-by rill--thundered away off in
the night. The stones and grass were wet with dew. Topham saw them
sparkling iridescent on the black island that rose in the middle of the
lake.

Suddenly the woman sprang up. “They will miss me,” she cried. “I must
go. There--there is danger.”

“Do not go. Not yet. Stay a little--only a little. It is so long--so
long--”

“I must! I--I cannot see. There is a mist over my eyes--”

“It is a cloud! No, it your hair! No! it is my lips--”




CHAPTER XVI


After Lillian Byrd and Topham had left Berlin, their relative
importance in Rutile’s eyes underwent a gradual change. Anxious at
first to hear from Miss Byrd chiefly because he hoped she might be able
to discover something that might aid him to rescue his friend from
what he felt sure was a dangerous entanglement, he soon became anxious
to hear from her for her own sake. Therefore, he eagerly welcomed the
letters she wrote him even before she left for Brazil, and he spent
much time and used up much midnight oil in preparing answers.

Both the Ouro Pretos had left Berlin and with their departure, the
possible political aspect of the affair was relegated to the back
of his mind, especially as he could get no information concerning
their interview with the Emperor. The question of restoring the duchy
seemed to have entirely dropped out of sight, the general impression
prevailing that the Emperor had denied the request and that the
discomfited claimants had gone back to Brazil. And the murdered robber
had been forgotten!

The whole affair was brought sharply back to Rutile’s mind, however, by
the contents of a letter he received from Miss Byrd about three months
after she had left England.

After the usual preliminaries, the letter proceeded:

“I know you must think I have been neglectful of your request to
investigate the Ouro Pretos; but I have not really been so. The
information you wanted was not altogether easy to obtain; and in
getting it I chanced on some things that roused keen interest in me as
a newspaper woman.

“You have, of course, heard of the rebellion that has broken out in the
southern provinces of Brazil, but I doubt whether you have any accurate
information as to its real strength. The Government naturally minimizes
it. But it is really very serious.

“Briefly, it is organized and maintained chiefly by the 1,000,000
German immigrants, who form two-thirds of the population of the three
southern provinces. With these are a few excitable Brazilians of the
class that is always ‘agin the government’, partly because they hope to
gain something for themselves by success and partly because they are
naturally prone to fly off the handle.

“The revolution has two prominent leaders; the Count of Ouro Preto, and
his son. In Berlin we somehow got an idea that the old man was dead,
but he isn’t. He is very much alive! It is his wife, the daughter of
the duke of Hochstein, through whom your friends claim the duchy, who
is dead.

“The old count is all sorts of a man. Like Castro of Venezuela he was
a cattle-thief in early days--or so his enemies say--and graduated,
through a period of banditism, to political prominence and enormous
wealth. He has organized the rebellion and has it working like
clockwork.

“You want to know, of course, whether this rebellion has any connection
with Germany and with the request of Ouro Preto to the Kaiser. I think
it has! So far as I can find out, there was no rumor of rebellion
among the Germans here till young Ouro Preto got back two months ago;
there was some discontent, of course, but not enough to account for an
outbreak. This fact, however, by itself amounts to little. Nor is the
prominence of the Ouro Pretos in the movement particularly significant,
although of course, it is cumulative. What is more important, however,
is that half a dozen German officers, whose names I will add at the end
of this letter, are here training and leading the rebels. You might
find out whether they are still carried on the rolls of the German
army, and if not, why not?

“Another significant fact is that the rebels are being supplied with
munitions of war from Germany. At least three steamers recently arrived
from Hamburg loaded with all sorts of war materials. I know this to be
a fact. You know how strict the Germans are when they want to be and
how impossible it would be for three vessels to get away from German
ports on filibustering expeditions without the connivance of the
authorities. It would be interesting if you should be able to trace
those arms and should find out that they came from government stores,
wouldn’t it?

“Taken separately, you see these things prove nothing; taken together,
they indicate that something is up. Just what it is, I don’t know. Do
you?

“Being on the inside, so to speak, you may know why the Kaiser might
want to cause trouble in Brazil. I confess I can’t see his object. And
I can’t see what difference it makes to the United States--except as
a basis for a newspaper story, which, by the way, I have not written.
There’s self sacrifice for you.

“(N. B. If things get a little more exciting, I’ll have to use it, so
watch out.)

“By the way, the countess seems not to be in Brazil and I can’t find
out where she is. She didn’t come back with her brother.”

After Rutile read this letter, he made inquiries as to the German
officers whose names Miss Byrd had added, and found that they had all
resigned from the German army about three months before--two days after
Ouro Preto’s interview with the Kaiser. Returning to his office after
ascertaining this fact, he sought the ambassador and laid the facts
before him.

His Excellency was a tall, polished, elderly gentleman, who dressed
immaculately and walked very straight. He had been a professor of
dead languages in a fresh-water college in early youth, had inherited
a fortune, and had used it so shrewdly that a grateful president had
selected him as minister to a small European power. After three years
in that post, a new president had come into office and was about to
dispense with his services, when he calmly requested to be transferred
to Berlin as ambassador. Before the President had gotten over his
amazement the would-be ambassador brought such influence to bear that
the President hastened to make the appointment requested--lest a worse
thing befall. Since then His Excellency had let Rutile run the business
of the office while he himself had bettered the American record by
spending more than ten times his salary and allowance in keeping up
the dignity of his office. Rutile knew all this and knew that his
Excellency would be the last man in the world to be rude enough to
pry unnecessarily into the secrets of the government to which he was
commissioned.

But he also felt reasonably sure that if he could convince the
ambassador that there was real need of action, His Excellency
would revert to the shirt-sleeve methods of the early American
representatives, let the consequences to his social standing be what
they might. But he would be hard to convince.

Rapidly Rutile recited the facts as he knew them. When he had finished,
he paused for an instant.

“Well?” demanded His Excellency, placing his finger tips together and
leaning back in the professorial attitude he had never lost. “Well,
Mr. Rutile! You have stated your premises clearly. Now draw your
deductions.”

Rutile reached out his hand and spun on its axis the great globe that
stood by the desk. “Here is the danger spot,” he said, placing his
finger on a particular spot.

The ambassador leaned forward. “Brazil?” he inquired.

“Southern Brazil,” corrected the secretary. “To speak exactly, the
state of Rio Grande do Sul. The total population of that state is
2,000,000 of whom half are Germans or the children of Germans. Your
Excellency understands that Brazil is Wilhelm’s last chance for a great
German colony. All the rest of the valuable world had been collected
and labelled by one or the other of the other great powers before
Germany felt the need of expansion. Think a minute. What has Germany
got? She’s got a slice or two of Africa, populated chiefly by niggers,
mosquitoes, and soldiers. There aren’t any colonists there! She’s got
a few miscellaneous islands about as big as a Kansas kitchen garden
and good for nothing but naval stations. She’s got a few square miles
of China, good enough for trade but no good at all for settlement.
And year after year she sees millions of the best people the Lord
made--I’m part German myself and I know--pouring into the United States
and into Brazil just because they haven’t got any German colony to
go to. Don’t you know it gravels the Kaiser? Wouldn’t it gravel us?
Wouldn’t we conspire and work and bluff and fight if need be to get
the last piece of territory going before it was too late--But your
Excellency knows all this as well as I do.”

The ambassador nodded. “Of course I know Germany needs real colonies,”
he agreed. “Everybody knows that. Witness how near she came to fighting
France over Morocco. Of course she’d like to have Brazil, or part of
it. But she can’t have it. The Monroe Doctrine keeps her out unless she
is willing to fight, and it’s too absurd to suppose that the Kaiser
would deliberately go to war with the United States. Do you really
think he would?” The ambassador’s tones were incredulous.

Rutile shook his head slowly. “I’m not so sure,” he declared. “What is
she building all these dreadnoughts for?”

“England! Of course! At least England thinks so.”

“Of course she does! Is there anything in the world that Britain does
not take to herself? She thinks Wilhelm is aiming at her and he lets
her think so. He doesn’t mind. But why on earth should he be aiming at
her? What has he to gain?”

His Excellency smiled. He was enjoying himself mightily. Nothing in
his experience with Rutile had led him to suspect that personage of
this sort of thing. He had always looked upon the secretary merely as
a perfectly trained automaton who always knew the right thing to do
and did it without fuss, and he had been content to leave official
business altogether in his capable hands, and to confine himself to
the promotion of that cordiality between the two nations that follows
a well-cooked dinner. And here was this perfectly trained automaton
lecturing him like a schoolboy.

“Doesn’t she want territory?” he asked.

“Territory!” Rutile was growing excited. “Just think what Your
Excellency is suggesting!” he cried. “Germany today has a fleet less
than half as powerful as that of England, and it will be many a long
day before she can match her. England is wailing today, not because
Germany is overtaking her on the sea, but because she fears she may not
be able to remain as powerful as Germany and the second strongest sea
power combined. So the result of any war that Germany may wage against
England will be more than doubtful. And if she wins she will gain only
worthless territory or territory settled by English. On the other hand
suppose she is aiming at Brazil. In a few months she will be as strong
on the sea as the United States, which alone stands between her and
Brazil. Does your Excellency see no significance in a German rebellion
in South Brazil aided by German officers and German filibusters?”

The ambassador smiled. “Not much, I’m afraid,” he replied, indulgently.
“You are more excitable than I supposed, my dear fellow. The Emperor
wants Brazil, of course; there’s nothing new in that. I’ve read a dozen
newspaper stories about it. But none of them ever came true. And none
ever will.”

“But--”

The ambassador rose. “What do you want me to do, Rutile?” he asked,
seriously.

The secretary hesitated. “I wanted you to send a scarce-story to
Washington,” he answered at last. “But I see you wouldn’t care to stand
for it. So I should like permission to run down to Hamburg and see
what I can learn about those shipments of arms. Mr. Cox can easily
attend to my duties while I am gone. May I have your permission, sir?”

“Certainly! Certainly! Act on your best judgement. And if you can bring
me any definite proof, my boy, I’ll act on it. You can rely on me.”




CHAPTER XVII


With a disgusted grunt, McNew, editor and proprietor of the New York
Gazette, flung himself back in his chair. He was impatient by nature,
and since he had bought the Gazette and made it the most notorious
if not the most famous paper in New York, he had stopped concealing
the fact. It is a bad thing for some men to succeed too soon in life.
If McNew could have put off his success for twenty years, it would
probably not have done him half the harm it did when he was thirty-five.

McNew had succeeded, so he had no patience with failure, not even
with the temporary failure that comes to all newspaper men at times.
His idea was that all information naturally belonged to the Gazette.
Sometimes it was wilfully kept from it by perverse persons, and anon
it was maliciously stolen from it by rivals; in either case he held
that the loss was due to the failure of the Gazette men. McNew never
admitted the impossibility of getting a piece of news.

In the present case he took no pains to hide his disgust.

“So far as I can make out, Risdon,” he jeered. “Your trouble seems to
lie in the depraved desire of certain people to keep their business to
themselves instead of telling it to you. What I want to know is, why
do you let them do it? What in hell’s bells do you think the Gazette
brought you back from Germany and landed you in Washington for? What do
you think it pays you for? To report pink teas?”

Risdon flushed, but not from embarrassment. Risdon had been a newspaper
writer too long to be readily embarrassed, even by his employer. But he
was very angry. He leaned forward and brought his fist down with a bang
on the table. “See here, Mac,” he began, furiously. “If--”

McNew drew in his horns a little. He wanted to stir up Risdon, but
he did not want to stir him too far. “Aw! don’t call me Mac,” he
interrupted. “It’s too infernally formal. Call me Johnny.”

A reluctant smile curved the corners of Risdon’s mouth. He and McNew
had known each other ever since they had been cub reporters on the
Alta California twenty years ago, and they understood each other
thoroughly. “All right, Johnny,” he answered, still a little huffily.
“If you want my resignation, you can get it.”

“What would I do with it?” retorted the other. “I can get a better
scoop without turning around. I don’t want resignations; I want
news. I’m publishing a newspaper, and I want something to fill it.
Particularly, I want to know what the German and Japanese ambassadors
are discussing so often and so earnestly with the daughter of the
governor of the most Germanic state of all the states of Brazil. I
don’t want pipe dreams; I want facts, f-a-c-t-s, facts, and not a lot
of rot like this;” McNew crumpled a dozen typewritten pages in his
hand, and flung them contemptuously on the table. “You call yourself a
newspaper man and can’t find out a little thing like that?” he finished
scornfully.

“Little thing! Humph! It is all right to talk, and it’s easy enough to
invent plots a la Oppenheim, but--”

“Why don’t you invent ’em, then,” retorted the editor; “instead of
sending in rehash like this. How many times have the Japs seized
the Philippines--in the newspapers? How many times has Germany made
faces at us since Admiral Diedrich tried to bluff Dewey at Manila
eight years ago? Pah! It’s gotten to be a joke and a mighty bad joke,
too; and it isn’t helped out much by the row over the schools in San
Francisco. Japan isn’t going to war, and if she was going to war she
wouldn’t give us warning that she was getting her back up. She’d jump
right in, and fuss about it later. A yarn like this is altogether too
fakey!”

Risdon studied the other for a moment. “You don’t see any significance
in the Germany and Japan ambassadors meeting with a Brazilian countess,
then, don’t you?” he asked.

“Mighty little. Where’s the connection? What’s Germany stand to win? As
for Brazil--Well! the founding of a German empire in Brazil--if that’s
what you’ve got in mind--is about as mouldy as the Japanese attack on
the Philippines. This panatella countess is half a German, and it’s
entirely natural that she should run with the German crowd here. As
for the Japs--Well! that may be only a coincidence. Anyway! there’s no
proof that would warrant me in risking half a dozen great big libel
suits. No! No! Risdon! If you want to run a yarn like this you’ve got
to have some real facts to back it up. Why don’t you get them?”

Risdon flung up his hands. “How can I?” he demanded. “I’ve done my
best. You know what these embassies are. No one can break into them
except a burglar--”

“Then turn burglar!”

“Not even a burglar, I should have said. No subordinate will talk; and
I can fancy what Bildstein or Siuki would say if I went to either of
them and asked to be told the subjects of their conferences with the
Countess Elsa.”

“Well! What would they say?”

“Say? They’d say: ‘Such a question, sir, is an unwarranted
impertinence. You will kindly excuse me.’ Then they would show me to
the door and would cut me dead the next time they met me! Thank you!
I’ve got to get news in Washington, and I’m not quarreling with my
sources of information--especially when I know it wouldn’t do any good.”

“Well! How about this countess woman? You ought to be used to the
aristocracy by now. Can’t you break in there, or shall I go back to New
York and send an office boy down to show you how?”

Risdon bristled up. “See here, Mac,” he exclaimed. “You’ve said about
enough. I’m tired of it, and if you keep on I’m likely to chuck you
and my job into the street together. I’ve tried to do exactly what you
suggest. The countess had been here some time before I knew it. When
I heard of her, I suspected something was up; I had met the lady in
Berlin and had reason to believe she was framing up something. She’s
staying at Senator Pratt’s, and the darkey who runs my errands is sweet
on one of the maids there. He told me of her interviews with the German
ambassador. Then I saw Pratt and everybody else--Great Scott! Don’t you
suppose I know my business! Nothing doing! I couldn’t get a line. So I
went to see the countess. Nothing doing again. I knew there wouldn’t
be. That woman can give me cards and spades and beat me. She’s wasted
in Washington and in this age. She ought to have lived in France a
hundred years ago. She’s a woman to overturn a government--or create
one. And I am not so sure she isn’t doing one or both. But I can’t
prove it.”

“How does she come to be visiting Pratt?”

“Put-up job! That’s one thing that makes me think there’s something
big brewing. Pratt and his daughter were in Europe last summer
just after--well, just after something peculiar happened--and the
countess laid herself out for them. The Ouro Pretos aren’t any cheap
adventurers, you understand. They’re all to the mustard in Paris
and Berlin, and they made things mighty delightful for Susy Pratt.
Now Susy’s all right. She’s a mighty sweet girl and the senator
is--well--he’s chairman of the big foreign affairs committee of the
Senate, but otherwise he’s what you’d expect a senator from his state
to be. Fine people, both of them, but not the sort that the countess
would lay herself out for without a lot better reason than their
sterling characters. The colored gentleman in the wood-pile didn’t
appear till this winter when the countess cabled from Tokio--Tokio,
mind you--asking for an invitation to Washington for the winter. Of
course, she got it, and I’d give something to know what she wanted it
for. If it’s some big political scheme, as I think it is, the chairman
of the foreign affairs committee is a mighty good stalking horse to
do business behind. I believe she deliberately picked Pratt as a
standing guarantee of her innocence and as an unsuspicious somebody
whom she could wrap around her finger. Maybe she’s right about Pratt’s
subserviency, but I’m none too sure of it.”

McNew considered. Then he slowly gathered up the typed pages that he
had thrown on the table. “Then you really believe there’s something in
this yarn of yours?” he asked.

Risdon did not answer at once. Instead, he stared out of the window
along the broad stretch of Pennsylvania Avenue to where half a dozen
electric lights branched beneath a pillared portico. So long he stared
that McNew’s impatience burst out.

“Well! Well! Well!” he shouted. “Why don’t you speak?”

Risdon roused himself. “Yes,” he said, slowly. “I think it is
correct--if not accurate. Of course, it isn’t new. It’s been used
before. In fact, we’ve been yelling wolf a whole lot and nobody has
ever taken it seriously, but the wolf did come at last in the fable,
you’ll remember, and so may the Japs. I didn’t send that yarn just to
make a story. I sent it because I really believed that the wolf might
be about ready to come and I hoped to scare him off.”

McNew laughed. “Lord! you’re innocent,” he jeered. “Do you really
think a scare-head in the Gazette would make the Japs--or Germans
either--change their plans--if they have any. Your story would simply
warn them. If you’re right--if you’re the least little bit right,
you’ve got your finger on _the_ story of the year. And you go off half
cocked. Heavens! Risdon! If I didn’t know to the contrary I’d think you
a rank cub.”

“Tha-a-anks! But suppose war comes--while I wait. Do you want that?”

“War!” McNew shuddered. “God forbid! The Spanish War wiped out the
Gazette’s entire profits for 1898, and a war with Germany would ruin
it.”

Risdon nodded. “So I understand,” he answered. “I wrote that article,
if you’ll notice, so as to convey the idea that I got my information
from the State Department and that it was prepared for anything. In
other words I tried to make it appear that the United States had
chosen me to serve formal notice on the Japs to go slow. But I didn’t
get my information from the State Department. I got the basis of it
in Berlin last summer, and I’ve got more later from various sources.
There is really something big on. I was sure of it months ago. That’s
why I persuaded you to send Miss Byrd to South America. It wasn’t for
commercial reasons, as I let on--though she’s made good on those all
right. It was because I was sure there was something doing. But--well,
I’ve gotten frightened. You’ve read this story”--he pointed to the
typed sheets--“and you know what it says. That rebellion in South
Brazil is growing stronger day by day. The rebels are getting men and
money and arms from unknown sources. Rutile--he’s secretary of our
embassy in Berlin--thought they were sent from Germany and got a leave
of absence and set off to investigate them. He’s disappeared and I
can’t learn what’s become of him. It looks to me as if the game was
getting near a finish. I don’t know what the State Department knows or
thinks; and I’ve been afraid to ask questions for fear I’d give the
scoop away. So it seemed best to print the yarn. If it does nothing
else, it may at least stir up the State Department. A yarn like that
is more effective when it’s published--even if it’s published in a
yellow sheet like the Gazette. Somehow people put more credence in it.
Besides, I think it’s not a bad story.”

McNew snorted. “Oh! it’s good enough, in one way,” he admitted. “I’ve
been joshing you to a certain extent. If I had been sure the story was
a plain fake, I would have printed it this morning. But I wasn’t sure!
I have information from--well, from abroad--that makes me think that
maybe you’re right. That’s why I held it up last night. That’s why I
came down here today. And that’s why you’re going to come with me and
meet the young woman who I hope will help to solve the problem.” He
drew out his watch and glanced at it. “It’s eight o’clock,” he noted;
“and I wired her that we would call at eight thirty. So get your hat
and come along.”




CHAPTER XVIII


For the twentieth time Miss Eleanor Byrd peered out of the second story
front window, and turned back with a sigh to where her aunt sat in the
soft glow of the lamp.

“What can he want, auntie? What can he want?” she repeated, also for
the twentieth time.

The elder Miss Byrd did not speak for an instant. “I hope he doesn’t
want _anything_,” she burst out at last. “I wish you had never written
to him. It is bad enough that your sister should be connected with that
awful paper of his--”

“Now, auntie!” Nellie’s eyes danced. “Now, auntie, did you ever see a
copy of the Gazette in your life? Honestly, now?”

Miss Byrd flushed--a lovely pink flush, like that of a Dresden
shepherdness grown old. “Of course not,” she answered indignantly. “Of
course not. Your grandfather would never allow me to read papers of
that sort--”

“Of what sort, auntie,” innocently.

“Of _that_ sort,” returned Miss Byrd decisively. “It’s terrible that
Lillian should write for it. No one who conducts a paper like that
can be a gentleman! Look what the President has said about him! He
has branded him as undesirable--undesirable--and my own niece writes
to such a man. And he ventures to telegraph--telegraph--to make an
appointment with her.”

Nellie laughed softly. She began to say something; then jumped up and
ran to the window and peered out behind the edge of the blind. An
instant later she came back.

“Another false alarm, auntie!” she said. “Maybe you’re going to have
your wish, and he won’t come at all. But”--she paused and suddenly
dropped on her knees beside the elder woman’s chair. “Dear auntie,” she
murmured, softly. “I’m sorry! I’m so sorry to grieve you. I know you
don’t approve of what Lillian is doing--”

“Nellie!” Miss Lee’s tone was shocked.

“Oh! It’s true, auntie. You’re always thinking that gentlewomen don’t
do such things and yet you are always perfectly certain that Lilly must
be a gentlewoman because she is a Byrd. Well! auntie! Neither Lilly
nor I are gentlewomen. We may be ladies--I hope we are--but we’re not
gentlewomen. There are no gentlewomen in these days. They went out of
existence with crinoline--except where they survive in such delightful
creatures as you. No gentlewoman earns her own living, and Lilly and I
have got to earn ours. Times have changed, auntie, dear! This branch of
the Byrd family is poor, dead poor. Lilly threw herself into the breach
and is making lots of money, while I barely starve along. I’m tired of
it, and if Mr. McNew wants my services, he can have them, at a price.”
A twinkle came into the girl’s eyes. “I hope he won’t want me to go
a-burgling, and then tell what it feels like,” she finished.

“Nellie!”

“Oh! I was only joking, you dear old thing!”

“I know, dear!” returned the older lady, plaintively. “But do you think
it’s quite proper to jest on such subjects? I can’t bear to think of
such a thing. Oh! if you--” She broke off as the front bell rang,
loudly and insistently.

Nellie Byrd sprang to her feet.

“It’s they,” she cried, darting to the door. Then she came back. “Dear
auntie!” she breathed. “It’s all right. Don’t worry.” Then she tripped
down the stairs to admit her visitors.

McNew entered first--a big rough-looking man with a pointed beard.
“Miss Byrd?” he questioned.

“Yes! You are Mr. McNew, I suppose. Won’t you come in?”

Mr. McNew strode in. “This is Mr. Risdon, Miss Byrd,” he explained. “He
tries to run the Gazette’s Washington office.”

Miss Byrd’s eyes rested kindly on the correspondent. “I know Mr. Risdon
by sight,” she explained. “No one could be a social secretary in
Washington without knowing him. My sister Lillian has written me about
him, too. Won’t you sit down, gentlemen?”

“Thank you!” Risdon drew forward a chair and the three disposed
themselves.

McNew wasted no time in preliminaries. He was a busy man, and had no
time to spare.

“Miss Byrd,” he began, as soon as he was seated. “Some time ago I
received an application from you for work? Do you still want it?”

Miss Byrd nodded. “Very much,” she said. “I hope you have some for me.”

“That depends! Your sister has done very good work for the Gazette.
Risdon here suggested sending her to South America. He and she both
fooled me; they got me to send her for one thing, and they arranged
for her to do another. But she’s done both very well.”

“I’m glad!”

“That’s one reason why I’m inclined to give you a chance. I am told
that you speak German fluently, Miss Byrd.”

Nellie nodded. “About as well as I do English,” she declared.

“Very good! If you will apply tomorrow to Senator Pratt--you know his
address--he will engage you as his daughter’s social secretary at
twenty-five dollars a week. The Gazette will pay you forty dollars
more.”

Nellie Byrd’s pale face bloomed with sudden vivid color. McNew staring
at her, read her thoughts, and smiled grimly. He enjoyed startling
people.

“What’s the matter?” he demanded.

Nellie’s color receded, leaving her pale. She looked at McNew
thoughtfully, apparently trying to fathom him.

“I hoped you could give me a chance to try something besides acting
as social secretary,” she syllabled, slowly. “But beggars mustn’t be
choosers. I understand the twenty-five dollars, but why the forty. What
service do I render the Gazette when I am acting as social secretary
for Senator Pratt.”

McNew watched the light coming and going behind the girl’s clear blue
eyes. “For the forty dollars,” he answered, slowly. “I wish you to
watch and report to me every act of the Countess del Ouro Preto, who is
spending the winter with Miss Pratt? Will you do it?”

“No!” If Nellie Byrd was disappointed, she concealed the fact well. Her
voice came as calm as ever. “You are mistaken in me, Mr. McNew. I am
not a spy.”

“Why not?” McNew shot the question at her. “Why not? Why not? Tell me
why not.”

“It is not honorable.”

“Honorable! Honorable! Was Nathan Hale dishonorable? Was Major Andree
dishonorable?”

Miss Byrd shook her head. “They were soldiers. What they did they
did for their country. That fact glorified their acts. They were not
newspaper spies.”

McNew hitched his chair forward. His eyes glowed. “Miss Byrd,” he said,
slowly. “In watching the Countess del Ouro Preto you will probably be
doing a service to your country scarcely less than that of a spy in
a war. You will not be risking death, but you will be risking your
social standing, which you would probably lose if it became known that
you were a Gazette spy. I have reason to believe that the countess
is the channel of communication between the German and the Japanese
Ambassadors in a plot to humiliate the United States--perhaps to
involve it in war. I want to know the truth; I want to know it in order
to get an exclusive story for the Gazette. But I want still more to
know it for the sake of the United States. The Monroe doctrine--But
Risdon will explain that to you.”

Miss Byrd turned to Risdon while McNew leaned back and watched the
changes flit over her delicate face as the younger man talked. A new
shade of earnestness, altogether charming, crept over it toward the end.

Risdon went over the situation as he understood it to exist. He told of
the petition of the Ouro Pretos to the Emperor and its supposed result;
of the rebellion that broke out shortly afterwards in Brazil; of the
visit (reported by a Gazette correspondent) of the Countess to Japan;
of her return to the United States and of her alleged conferences
with the Japanese and German ambassadors; and called attention to the
growing excitement in California growing out of the strike and boycott
that was being enforced against the Japanese restaurants, and out of
the denial of public school privileges to the Japanese in San Francisco.

McNew broke in. “Your sister,” he said, “has sent some incendiary yarns
from Brazil--which I have not printed. Yesterday she cabled the worst
of all. She’s on her way home now, by the way.”

Nellie’s eyes brightened. “Oh! is she?” she cried. “I’m so glad. I
didn’t know.”

“Nobody knew. Risdon here didn’t know till he heard me tell you. And
it’s just as well to talk about it. It mightn’t do any harm and again
it might. She’s coming on the same ship with Ouro Preto!”

“Oh!” Miss Byrd’s tones were significant and not altogether approving.

But McNew settled back in his chair. “Go on, Risdon,” he ordered.

Risdon resumed. “There really isn’t much more to say,” he declared.
“Altogether the circumstances are very suspicious. Singly they amount
to nothing, together they may amount to a good deal. The countess is a
very clever woman, and we believe that she is the mainspring of the
plot and is doing some very important work in connection with it in
this country, and we want to find out what this work is.”

Miss Byrd had followed the argument closely. “And then?” she
questioned, calmly, when Risdon finished.

“Then we will print it. It will be a great scoop for the Gazette, of
course. But it may also mean salvation for the country.”

“And,” broke in McNew, “You don’t want to run away with the idea that
you are betraying your employer. Old Pratt will know what your errand
in his house is.”

“Oh!” Miss Byrd’s face cleared. “That changes the case,” she conceded.

“Of course! You see Risdon here got scared, and wired a lot of stuff
last night that brought me down to Washington in a hurry. I saw Pratt
this morning and reasoned with him. He’s willing enough to oblige the
Gazette, Pratt is. Besides, he had his suspicions already. Pratt’s no
fool, you understand. No fool ever gets to be United States Senator
nowadays. Pratt’s got the far west idea of women, and he doesn’t
understand the type of the countess. She doesn’t understand him either,
however. So it’s a stand off. The upshot is that he agreed to my
terms. He won’t discuss it with you, though! To him you will be his
daughter’s social secretary and nothing else, and you’ve got to attend
to your duties as such; what else you may do he doesn’t care. Now--Will
you do it?”

McNew rose, and Miss Byrd did so also. “Yes,” she said, slowly. “I will
do it!”

“Good! Then the first thing you have to do is to forget that you know
German.”




CHAPTER XIX


As Miss Eleanor Byrd soon found, her duties as social secretary to Miss
Pratt were no sinecure. The Pratts had been in Washington thirteen
years, the Senator having just started on his third term in the upper
house of the national government, but they had not cared much for
social affairs until their daughter was ready to make her bow to
society. Then they discovered, to their amazement, that while they
could command a certain amount of consideration as a senator’s family,
there were yet many circles into which they could not penetrate. These
circles, although really little if any better than those to which they
had access, naturally became at once exceedingly desirable to both Mrs.
Pratt and her daughter. Especially did they desire, as all Washington
women do, to get into the diplomatic set, and when chance--they thought
it was chance--threw the Countess Elsa in their way, they were ready to
grapple her to themselves with hooks of steel--or gold. When, instead
of making demands upon them, the countess appeared to lay herself out
to please them, they were overjoyed; and when she proposed to visit
them in their Washington home, their delight knew no bounds; even
Senator Pratt, hard-headed business man as he was, was pleased, but
partly because the countess always treated him with a consideration as
grateful as it is rare to the average American father and husband. It
was Senator Pratt who a few months before had openly thanked God that
he didn’t keep a dog. “Because,” he said, “my wife comes first, my
daughter second, and if we kept a dog, I’d come fourth.”

Pleased the Senator was, but not carried beyond his depths. Life-long
habits are strong, and more than once he had asked himself what there
was “in it” for the countess. When McNew offered an answer, his
suggestion fell on fertile ground.

But he wanted a quid pro quo, nevertheless. If he paid Miss Byrd $100
a month to manage his daughter’s social affairs, he wanted her to earn
the money. And as neither his daughter nor his wife had any idea as to
the social secretary’s real mission, she found her hands full.

A week passed without significant event--or at least without event that
seemed significant to Miss Byrd. Twice a week the ladies served tea
informally to all who liked to drop in, and on these occasions the
members of the various legations and embassies were always present in
good numbers. But they clustered around Miss Pratt--who was both pretty
and interesting--almost as numerously as they did about the countess,
although the latter had been the attraction that had drawn them to
the house. The talk was necessarily polyglot, though mostly in either
French or English, but so far as Miss Byrd could see, the countess
indulged in no private conversations with any one. What she did when
away from home Miss Byrd could not always tell, for of course she was
not invited to many of the entertainments attended by the countess and
Miss Pratt. However, she knew that McNew had other spies there.

As the days went by, the anxiety of those who were watching grew apace.
The rebels in Brazil were steadily becoming more and more powerful, and
the German newspapers were advocating their recognition as belligerents.

The Japanese were growing more insistent in their demands. Some of the
papers were clamoring for war. If there was really anything in the
supposed plot, the crisis must be drawing near.

Thinking over it all, Risdon made up his mind that the arrival of Ouro
Preto, who was still speeding northward, would be followed by important
events. And still no clue could be discovered.

At last, however, partial enlightenment came. The Pratt parlors had
been crowded that afternoon, but the crowd had thinned out until only
half a dozen callers remained. Three of these were grouped around
Miss Pratt, and the other three around the countess. With a sudden
shock Miss Byrd, sitting at the tea table noticed that these latter
three were the German and Japanese ambassadors and the latter’s wife;
suddenly she remembered that the last, though for forty years married
to a Japanese, was German by birth.

As she bent her face over the teacups, to hide the flush that rose
in her cheeks at the sudden realization of what this might mean, the
countess leaned toward the Japanese ambassador. “Did you see Maude
Adams last night, Baron?” she asked. “How do you like her?” Then
without the slightest change in her sprightly tones she slipped into
German; “and, Baron,” she questioned; “when do you present your demands
to the President?”

In spite of herself, Miss Byrd started. Instantly she realized that
here was the unsuspected channel of communication. Relying on the
ignorance of the rest of the household of rapid vernacular German, the
countess, with insolent daring, had done her plotting under the eyes of
everybody.

But the Japanese ambassador was speaking, and there was no time for
considering other things.

“Charming!” he said in English; but--he changed to German--“I shall
never present them.”

The countess showed no vexation. “Isn’t she?” she asked. “Why not?” in
German.

“She assuredly is. I wanted to see her in Joan of Arc, but my duties
kept me here. Because,” in German, “I have convinced my government that
this country is its best friend and have conveyed to it the assurance
of the President that he will see that my countrymen in California
receive all their treaty rights.” “You did not go either, Countess, did
you?” in English.

“No! I was too busy. And your excellency!” She turned to the German
ambassador. “What do you think of her?”

The German scowled. “I do not like her,” he sputtered; “but she has
many friends. I suppose your ideas are fixed, Baron, and that no
argument could possibly alter them.”

The Jap shook his head. “None!” he answered. “My opinion is absolutely
fixed!”

“Then--But I am making an unconscionably long stay. I leave the Baron
in your hands, countess. Perhaps you may persuade him.”

The countess smiled mysteriously. “Perhaps,” she said. “Perhaps!”


CHAPTER


That night Miss Byrd left the house and hurried down to Risdon’s
office; and laid the story before him. When she got back she learned
that the countess was suffering with a headache and had decided not to
go out that night. The next day her maid reported that she was still
feeling badly. That afternoon a doctor--the doctor attached to the
German embassy--was called in. The countess, however, did not improve.
She kept her room and begged to be excused from seeing any one--even
Miss Pratt. It was not until five days later that Miss Byrd suspected
that she was no longer in the house. But by that time the countess was
three thousand miles away from Washington.




CHAPTER XX


Walter Topham was nearing San Francisco. His stay in Japan had been
very brief. Long before he had had time to become acquainted with
conditions in that country or to make certain that Stiles’ suspicions
as to intense activity in the Japanese arsenals and dockyards were
justified, the ambassador had called him into his private office and
thrust before him a dispatch from Washington from the Secretary of
State.

  “Ask Topham what he knows about the Countess del Ouro Preto in Berlin.
  Cable fully,” it read.

The query was so unexpected that Topham flushed, despite his effort
not to do so and despite his consciousness that the keen eyes of the
ambassador were upon him. He flushed, but he did not hasten to answer
as most people would have done in his place; instead he read the
dispatch again slowly; and concluded that he owed it to what he had
told Rutile in Berlin, and to that gentleman’s faculty of smelling out
intrigues.

“Well, Mr. Topham?” questioned the ambassador.

Topham looked up. “I know the lady,” he said, slowly. “I met her in
Berlin, and learned something of her mission there. I met her the night
I reached Tokio--perhaps Stiles has told you. I do not want to conceal
anything concerning her from any one who has a right to ask. The only
question is what the Secretary wants to know.”

“Everything! I suppose, Mr. Topham.”

“‘Everything’ is pretty broad. Perhaps I had better write down anything
that I have observed that I think may be of interest to the government,
and submit it to you. Then if there is anything lacking, perhaps you
may be able to discover what it is.”

The ambassador nodded. “Do so, Mr. Topham.”

Topham wrote out his account carefully, choosing his words with
exactitude. He was anxious to tell everything that the secretary could
want to know and yet not to magnify any of it or give any part of it a
significance that it really did not possess.

He had about come to the conclusion that Stiles was wrong and that
the errand of the countess to Japan had nothing whatever to do with
any intrigue against the United States, and he naturally did not wish
to say anything that would create such a belief. Nor did he consider
himself called on to go into his personal relations with the countess.

He gave the paper to the ambassador, who read it, asked no questions,
and presumably cabled its substance to Washington. For the next day
Topham received orders to leave for Washington on the next steamer.

Loud was Stiles’ disgust. “I might have known it,” he cried. “It’s
just like those fellows! They’ve got about half the navy in Washington
already, and want more of it.”

“I think they want me for a special reason,” suggested Topham.

“Oh! I suppose so. Devilish queer about that countess, isn’t it. I
wonder what she really was up to!”

Topham looked the secretary in the eye. “Really! if you don’t mind, I
would rather not discuss her,” he observed gently.

“Oh! no offense! Say, look here, Topham. Your going is lucky in one
sense, because you can do something for me--and for the government--on
your way. Do you remember that Jap colonel--Hakodate his name
was--whom you met here the day after your arrival?”

“Yes! I think so.”

“Would you know him again?”

“I might. I’m not certain! Why?”

“Well! I told you we had native spies. One of them brought in word this
morning that Colonel Hakodate sailed a week ago for San Francisco as
an immigrant and that he carried letters to one Hiroshina, who keeps a
Jap restaurant on Market Street near Kearny. Of course the man may be
lying and of course you may say that there’s nothing in it even if he’s
telling the truth. But it looks dashed funny to me, and I wish you’d
just drop in at that restaurant when you get to San Francisco, and
snoop around a bit. See if you can spot Hakodate there, and see what
he’s up to.”

Topham promised.

That had been two months before and San Francisco was now close at
hand. The glow that hovers above every great city had grown more and
more distinct; the peak of Mt. Tamalpais bisected it and the black bulk
of the low southern shore was faintly visible beneath it. Soon the
channel and range lights grew into visibility. Then the steamer slid
through the heavy rolling waves of the bar into the calm of the outer
bay. Fifteen minutes more and it passed through the Golden Gate and the
great city lay outstretched before it.

Topham looked at his watch and wondered whether he would get ashore in
time to catch the midnight train for the east.

Scarcely had he formulated his wish, when a boat came alongside, and a
fresh young voice hailed the deck.

“This is a launch from Fort Alcatraz,” it explained. “Is Commander
Topham on board? I’ve been sent to land him. Here’s the permit from
quarantine.”

In five minutes Topham was in the boat, speeding shoreward. “Orders
from Washington, Mr. Topham,” explained the officer in charge. “Your
berth has been engaged on the twelve o’clock train. It’s nearly nine
now. Meanwhile I’m at your orders. Will you come out to the fort, or
go straight to Oakland and the train, or do you want to see the Great
White Way in San Francisco first? Command me.”

“Thank you! I’ll go to San Francisco, please. I have an errand to
discharge. Please land me at the foot of Market Street.”

“Just as you say, sir.” The young man spoke to the coxswain and the
boat bore away to the right.

Once landed in the western city, Topham said good-night and started up
Market Street, reading the signs on the lamp posts as he went.

Stiles had not been able to give him the number of the restaurant for
which he was looking, but he knew that it was on Market Street just
below Kearney Street, close to Lotta’s fountain and the Chronicle
Building, which he could see outlined against the sky far up the street.

As he stepped briskly along it occurred to him that there was an
unusual stir in the city, though not being familiar with its ordinary
state he had no means of comparison. Still, it seemed to him that
conditions could not be altogether normal. The people were not moving
about their business, but were congregating in groups here and there.
Now and then there would be a sudden movement to one point or another,
but never for any reason that Topham could see.

As a matter of fact he paid little attention. He was interested in
the task that Stiles had set him--a task for which the three hours
available before his train left for the east might easily prove
anything but superabundant. When at last he caught sight of a
brilliant sign “Hiroshima, Japanese restaurant,” his faint curiosity as
to the crowd disappeared.

But before he could enter the portals of the restaurant a big
workingman--nearly as big a man as himself--barred his way.

“You ain’t goin’ in that Jap hash house, are you, friend?” inquired the
stranger.

Topham halted. “That was--er--my idea,” he responded. “Why not?”

“There is strike on; see? An’ the Japs are boycotted; see? They’re
playin’ the devil with hard-workin’ Americans. And we ain’t goin’ to
stand for it. You want to keep away from there, mister.”

Topham hesitated. His interlocutor was not alone; half a dozen other
men, loafing near, were evidently fellow pickets. Topham did not want
any trouble during the few hours he was to be in the city. Yet he was
resolved to enter the restaurant. The sight of two policemen on guard
at the door decided him to force the game.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “But I must go in. There are reasons why I can’t
forego having my supper there. Pardon me!” He pushed by and stepped to
the door. As he went he heard the man cursing behind him.

He seated himself and ordered a meal from a bill of fare presented
him by a stocky Japanese waiter, who seemed not at all alarmed by the
situation. Perhaps he had grown hardened to it.

When the waiter had disappeared toward the back of the place Topham
stared around him.

Whether because of the hour or because of the strike, the restaurant
was almost empty. Only two guests beside himself were in the place and
neither of these seemed to be enjoying his meal. Another waiter was
hovering over them, and behind the cashier’s desk sat a Japanese. As
Topham looked this man raised his head and the navy officer recognized
him. It was Colonel Hakodate.

The thing took away Topham’s breath for an instant. Almost he became a
convert to Stiles’ prognostications of war. For it was inconceivable
that a samurai of the bluest Japanese blood, akin to the emperor
himself, and an officer of the imperial army, should turn restaurant
keeper except for grave reasons.

Little time, however was given him to think. From the street without
came a sudden outcry, a sort of chilling yell that brought all in the
place to their feet. Another instant a dozen stones crashed through the
plate-glass windows. Then came a rush of feet and a crowd of men leaped
into the broad doorway. Topham saw the clubs of the two policemen rise
and fall like flails, and saw them forced backward, still fighting.

It was all so sudden, so unexpected, that the head of the crowd was
actually in the room before he realized what was happening. Then he
sprang forward with a yell to the aid of the police.

But he never reached them. The Japs were quicker than he. Before he
had taken two steps, he heard the crash of firearms and saw Colonel
Hakodate and his two waiters standing coolly up pouring shot after shot
into the mass of the mob.

“Banzai! Banzai!” yelled the colonel. “Stand to it, brothers. Remember!
It is the emperor’s command.”

It was only for a second. Then the policemen went down and the mob
rolled in. The Japs disappeared, and Topham snatching up a chair,
breathlessly defended himself against a score of brawny men who swarmed
upon him.

For half a minute he held them at bay. Then a paralyzing blow on the
arm sent his chair crashing from his hands and he saw death staring at
him from a score of maddened eyes.

But before the blow could fall, a woman burst through the circle and
flung herself upon him. One arm she threw around his neck and threw the
other up into the faces of the mob.

“All right! boys! All right,” she cried. “Standt back. Dieses ist mein
mann!”

Topham saw the fire die out of the eyes that circled him. For a moment
their owners hesitated; then--

“Hurrah for Dutch Elsie!” yelled one, and the others took up the cry.
“Hurrah for Dutch Elsie.”

“Out of here. Quick!” the woman was clamoring in the navy man’s ear.
“Quick. The police are coming. Quick!”

But Topham stood still. “You,” he cried. “You!”

“Yes, I! I’ll explain later. But come now! Quick! come! Dios! Come!”

And Topham went.




CHAPTER XXI


Life was coming back again into Topham’s arm, and by main strength he
forced his way through the crowd, making a path to the door for himself
and the countess. Once through the aperture, progress was easier,
though not too easy, for the crowd outside was packed and jammed about
the door. At last, however, he was free, just as the clatter of hoofs
on the granite told that the police patrol had arrived.

The countess clung to his arm, but made no attempt to speak. She was
dressed plainly, like a factory worker of the poorer class. She looked
much older than when he had seen her last, and he guessed that some of
the shadows on her face had been purposely put there by skillful hands.
Her hair puzzled him at first, but he soon guessed that its grayish
tinge was due to powder.

The mob was dispersing, fleeing in all directions, and the police were
plowing their way through it toward the wrecked restaurant.

Topham glanced about him, caught sight of the telegraph office that he
had noted half an hour before and quickly drew the woman up the steps
and inside.

As he turned toward the table with its pile of blanks, she caught him
by the arm. “What are you going to do?” she gasped.

Topham looked at her with infinite sadness in his eyes. “I am going
to telegraph to the President that the anti-Japanese riots in San
Francisco have been provoked by German agents for the purpose of
embroiling Japan with the United States for some end that I cannot
guess. Afterwards, I should be glad if you can spare me a word. I owe
my life to you!”

The countess took no notice at all of his last words. Her attention
was concentrated on what had gone before. “You will not send that
dispatch!” she pleaded.

“I must. You know that I must.”

“But--but--as you say--I saved your life. If it had not been for me you
would not be alive to send anything. I think I have the right to ask
you not to send it. Please! For my sake!”

The sweat crept out on Topham’s forehead, but his tones did not falter.
“I must,” he answered.

“Yet listen first to me! I have the right to ask you at least to
listen.” Her voice, deep and rich, had lost none of its intensity, nor
her glorious eyes any of their appeal. Topham would have known them
anywhere; in fact, it was by them that he had first recognized her
when she flung herself upon him. “Grant me at least ten minutes,” she
begged. “You will not refuse the first thing I ever asked of you!”

Topham glanced up to where a clock face marked the hour. “No!” he said,
gently. “I will not refuse to listen to you. But I can give you but
little more than the ten minutes you ask. My train leaves in an hour
and the ferry is some distance away. I will listen, but I cannot yield.
I have been ordered to Washington to tell the President what I know of
the Countess de Ouro Preto.”

With round eyes the woman stared at him. “So!” she syllabled, under her
breath. “So he suspects. _What_ does he suspect?” she demanded fiercely.

“I do not know.”

“But you can guess.”

Topham shook his head. “No,” he answered, gently. “I may not guess even
if I could. You know that, countess. No one knows it better than you.”

Some great emotion seemed to sweep through the woman’s frame. She
shivered, though the night was not cold; her lips trembled; her eyes
stared blankly. Then, quick as it had come, the stress vanished and her
features shaped themselves into a mocking smile.

“So,” she said, bitingly. “So all those pretty things you said to me in
Berlin and in Tokio were false. You amused yourself, perhaps?”

Topham shook his head. “They were true,” he affirmed. “They are still
true. You know it.”

His directness was disconcerting. An appeal to one against one’s self
usually is. But the scorn in the woman’s eyes did not lessen.

“Yet you refuse?”

“Yes! I refuse.” A flash of passion trembled in Topham’s tones. “God!”
he cried. “If I did not have to refuse! If I did not have to refuse!”

Coolly the countess studied him. His agitation was welcome. If it
should increase anything was possible. But one cannot argue with a
marble statue. For herself the time of self-betrayal was past. Brain
had usurped the rule of heart, and would maintain itself till the end.

“So you say,” she jeered.

Topham glanced round. The long room was nearly empty, and what
occupants it had were collected at the broad windows staring out into
the street.

“Countess!” he said, swiftly. “I do not know in what plot you are
engaged. I can not conceive what it may be. But I am very certain that
any plot in which Germany and Japan are concerned; any plot that leads
German emissaries to stir up mobs to murder Japanese in San Francisco--”

“It was not murder,” pantingly.

“Was it not? I hope not? But that was the plain intent--”

“No! No! The Japanese knew. They were ordered--” she broke off.

“Of course! I knew that. Colonel Hakodate would not have been there
except under orders. Yet it was murder--”

“No! It was war!”

Topham paused. “Perhaps!” he acquiesced, after an instant. “Perhaps!
Murder seems to me no less murder when done by the orders of an
Emperor. But it is not for me to judge. Nor will I try to question
you--not even about the murder at the door of the Embassy in Berlin.
God knows I shall have enough to tell the President without taking
advantage of your confessions. But anything that can bring about such
occurrences as I have seen tonight is a thing that no officer can keep
from his chief.”

“But--but if I tell you that your President would not be interested?
If I tell you that this is not at all an affair for the United States?
What then? Will you believe me?”

“Believe you? As a man, yes! As an officer of the United States, no. It
is not for me to believe or disbelieve. It is for me to obey. My orders
were to cable what I knew. That means that I am to telegraph any later
information. But, pardon me, the ten minutes are up. I must write my
dispatch and go!”

He turned away, resolutely enough to all appearances. His tones were
even and his manner calm. But the countess guessed that beneath the
mask his heart was storming madly. She knew men, did the countess Elsa!
She had met Topham’s quiet sort before.

With a sudden movement she flung her hand across the telegraph blank.

“In Berlin you asked me to marry you,” she breathed. “Do you still wish
me to do so?”

Topham’s eyes flamed. “Marry me! Marry me!” he groaned. “God knows I
want it more than--more than--”

“Then do not send that message, and I will marry you at once--within
the hour. I will abandon my plans; give up my life work; break my
oath to the dead. I will be yours to do with as you will. Only--only
I ask--Forget what has happened here tonight. Do not wire it! Do not
speak of it! Let it be as if it had never been. Am I not worth it,
beloved? Ah! Don’t you know that I will make up to you for it all?”

Her face was very near his; her glowing eyes beamed into his; the soft
fragrance of her breath fanned his cheeks. But he set his face like
flint.

“No!” he said.

“Then tell the President what you like when you see him. But do not
telegraph.”

“No!”

The countess drew back. “Then,” she said, with a break in her voice.
“Then-- Good-by.”

“Good-by?”

“Good-by--forever. That dispatch will mark the end for you and me. I
beg! I implore you not to send it. But I warn you, too!”

Slowly but decidedly Topham shook his head. “God help me!” he breathed.
“But send it I must!”

Swiftly, as if desiring to put himself beyond the reach of temptation,
he snatched up the pen and scribbled a score of hasty words. Then he
hurried to the clerk’s grating, thrust it in, and turning, staggered
blindly toward the door.

But the countess was waiting for him, and in her eyes he saw a light he
had never thought to see again. Heedless of who might see she stretched
her arms wide.

“Thank God! Oh! Thank God! that there is one true man left,” she cried.
“I thought all men were liars till you showed me to the contrary. I
_had_ to try you, beloved! I had to do my best to stop you, and I did
do my best. But I was praying all the while that I might fail. And I
thank God I did fail. Take me, beloved, and do with me what you will. I
can trust you with anything in the world.”




CHAPTER XXII


Leeds of the Star was the first of a group to spy McNew as he swung
past the pillared portico and turned down the asphalt walk to the
office building. Leeds rubbed his eyes and looked again. McNew had not
been to the White House for five years--not since the President had
declared him morally guilty of murder by his having stirred up the
class hatred that had led to it. That he should come there at that late
day meant something out of the ordinary.

Leeds was a local man, however, and did not take a very intense
interest in the doings of New York newspaper proprietors, no matter how
yellow they might be. So he turned to Iverson of the Gazette.

“Isn’t that your boss toting an olive branch up the walk?” he inquired.

Iverson jumped up, and glanced where Leeds pointed. Then, with an
elaborate assumption of indifference, he strolled to the foot of
the steps to meet his chief. His face showed little interest, but
Iverson’s face had long before ceased to be a mirror of his mind. In
reality he was mightily amazed at McNew’s coming. So nonchalantly
did he move that he had gained a dozen steps before any of the other
newspaper men realized the situation. When they did, they tried to
catch up with him without appearing to do so.

McNew, however, appeared to have no desire to make a mystery of his
coming or to give any exclusive information to his own correspondent.
He nodded to him indifferently; then glanced at the other men.

“Good-morning! Good-morning! Gentlemen!” he called. “What do you know?”

Clark of the Post answered him. “Don’t know a thing, Mr. McNew. What’s
the news from New York?”

“Read it in the Gazette,” retorted McNew. “Is the president on view
today?”

O’Laughlin of the World shook his head. “Nothing doing today,” he
answered. “Cabinet day, you know, Mr. McNew!”

McNew shrugged his shoulders. “Oh! well!” he remarked. “It doesn’t
matter. His secretary will do. Sorry, boys! But I haven’t a bit of news
to give you. I’m here on personal business. Good-morning.”

He strove to push through the ring of newspaper men, but they closed up
and stood so firm that he would have had to use some force to get away.
So he laughed and stood still. “Well, boys?” he questioned.

O’Laughlin caught his eye. “Who carried the flag of truce?” he demanded.

The sunlight glinted through the trees into McNew’s eyes, masking the
expression that crept into them. “There isn’t any flag of truce,” he
answered slowly. “I am on the same terms with the President today
that I was five years ago. I have business here today, however, and I
came to transact it with the President or his secretary--not with the
man who used his high office to slander me. I did not come to ask any
favors or offer any friendship; I merely come to do business. I may not
even see the President. I hope I make my position clear?”

The men nodded. “Damned clear,” muttered O’Laughlin, but so low that
McNew did not hear him.

“Then once more, good-morning, gentlemen.” The editor passed through
the ring into the building. As he vanished O’Laughlin gazed after him
shrewdly; then turned to Black of the Journal. “Wonder what the devil
he really is here for?” he muttered.

“The devil knows and he won’t split on a pal,” misquoted Black. “Cheer
up! O’Laughlin! You’ll see it all in the Gazette in the morning.”

But O’Laughlin did not see it in the Gazette, either on the next
or on any other day. McNew’s errand at the White House was not for
publication.

Passing through the reception hall, with the air of one used to his
surroundings, the editor nodded to the colored messenger at an inner
door. “Good-morning, Arthur!” he greeted. “Is the secretary at liberty?”

Arthur rose and flung open the door as nimbly as the “rheumatiz”
permitted. “Yes, suh! I think so, suh!” he answered. “Walk right in,
suh! Ain’t nobody yere this mornin’.”

McNew stepped in. A glance showed him that no strangers were present,
and he strode straight up to a man who sat writing at a desk close
beneath the big south windows. Grim lines had suddenly started out in
his face, and when he spoke all lightness had vanished from his tones.
Any one seeing him then could understand how he could have built his
paper up from nothing to be a national power.

“Mr. Secretary,” he said. “I must see the President instantly.”

The secretary laid down his pen and rose slowly to his feet. In his
way he was as strong a character as McNew--not a man to be hurried or
stampeded. “Impossible, just now, Mr. McNew,” he answered briefly.
“After the cabinet meeting, perhaps.”

“Nothing is impossible. I must see him at once. The matter is one of
the very gravest importance. After the cabinet meeting will be too
late.”

The secretary hesitated. “Can you tell me your business?” he asked.

“I should rather not. You know, Mr. Loren, none better, that I am no
friend of the President’s. That I came here at all is evidence that my
errand is important. That I come at such a time ought to be evidence
that it is of national and not merely of personal importance. I want
one minute’s speech with the President. After that, he can go back to
the cabinet meeting--if he wants to. This is serious, Mr. Secretary!
Very serious!”

The secretary rose briskly. When he gave way, he gave way absolutely.
There was no half-way surrender about Loren. “I’ll tell the President,”
he conceded, as he passed to an inner door; “on your head be the
consequences.”

In a moment the President bustled in. Curtly he nodded to McNew. “You
want to see me, Mr. McNew?” he questioned, brusquely.

“Yes! Read this, please.”

Neither man troubled to show much courtesy. Each hated the other with
a cordial hatred that caused any meeting between them to resemble that
between two bulldogs ready yet hesitating to fly at each other. McNew
had published vitriolic things about the President and the President
had retorted more calmly but more bitterly. Each really considered the
other a menace to the country.

Further, the President was vexed at being interrupted. Theoretically
cabinet meetings are affairs of tremendous dignity, not to be lightly
intruded upon. Actually, if rumor speaks true, their importance is
sometimes in inverse ratio to their secrecy.

Nevertheless, the President took the paper that McNew extended to him,
and ran his eye down it. The look of suspicion faded from his face; and
he read it again more slowly. Then he looked up.

“The importance of this lies more in what it infers than in what it
says,” he asserted, sternly; “and both depend on who wrote it. I do not
recognize the signature.”

McNew nodded. “It is a cipher signature,” he explained. “The whole
message came in cipher. The writer is Miss Lillian Byrd, formerly of
this city. You know her, I believe.”

The President nodded. “I know her very well,” he said, “and I have the
greatest confidence in anything she may say. Where is she? How did she
come to send such a message?”

“She is a Gazette correspondent. She has been doing some work in South
America for the Gazette. You may have read her dispatches from there.
They have been very significant. Three weeks ago she left Buenos Ayres
for New York on the steamer Southern Cross. Last night she sent this
dispatch by wireless in code via Guantanamo. I got it in New York at
three o’clock this morning and left for Washington with it an hour
later on a special train.”

“You have not published it?”

“No.”

“Why not? It is a good story. It would cause a sensation. Why do you
not publish it, Mr. McNew?”

McNew’s atramentous face grew darker. “Because, Mr. President,” he
grated; “because I am an American like yourself. I know, Mr. President,
that you think I cater to anarchy for the sake of money. I think that
you--But, no matter; I did not come here to bandy words. Frankly, I
dislike you, Mr. President, and I would never have brought that message
to you if any other course had been possible. I distrust your policies
and disapprove your acts. But you are President and the subject matter
of that dispatch clearly falls within your province. Therefore I bring
it to you. Take it, not as the service of a friend but merely as that
of one who is willing for the moment to sink personal enmity for the
sake of his country.”

The President listened quietly while the editor spoke.

“Agreed,” he answered. “We will work together in this; later if need be
we can again lock horns. You have done neither more nor less than your
duty, Mr. McNew. On its face this dispatch,” he slapped it across his
hand--“this dispatch is incredible. As a theme for an Oppenheim romance
it would be admirable. As a yellow-journal feature story it might sell
a few copies of the Gazette. It would not do more. The only people who
would believe it would be those who already know it to be true--if it
is true. Yet--if it is true--to publish it would do great harm, for it
would show these very people that we know something of their plans.
So I will ask you to suppress it altogether. I will see that you get
another scoop to balance this one. I will tell you that I believe it is
true. I received other information only last night that convinces me.
Now, Mr. McNew, I must see Miss Byrd at the earliest possible moment.”

McNew nodded. “I thought so,” he answered. “That was why I insisted on
seeing you at once. Miss Byrd’s steamer ought to pass outside the capes
of the Chesapeake bound for New York some time tonight. Can you send a
torpedo boat or a cruiser out to intercept her?”

The President turned to his secretary. “Ask Secretary Metson to come
here, Mr. Loren,” he ordered.

Loren slipped into the cabinet room. In an instant he was back. Close
behind him came a stout, sandy-mustached man, who nodded to McNew with
an air of surprise.

The President, however, allowed no time for explanations. “Mr. Metson,”
he questioned, instantly. “Have we any small vessels at Hampton Roads
that can go to sea without delay.”

Metson nodded. “Four or five, I believe,” he answered promptly. “Two
destroyers, one gun-boat, one protected cruiser--”

“Order the swiftest to be ready to leave the instant an officer reaches
her with orders. Can you put your hand on Commander Topham, whom you
brought to me last night, or is he out of reach?”

Metson looked undecided. “I think he is in the navy department now,” he
asserted. “If Mr. Loren will telephone over--”

“Do so, Loren.”

Topham was easily found, and in less than five minutes was in the room.

The President went straight to the point. “Mr. Topham,” he said. “An
American lady, Miss Byrd, a correspondent of the Gazette, will pass the
entrance of Chesapeake Bay on the steamship Southern Cross some time
tonight. I want you to take train--a special if need be”-- He broke
off. “Find out about trains, and order a special at once, if necessary,
Mr. Loren,” he flung over his shoulder. Then: “You will proceed
immediately to Fortress Monroe, Mr. Topham,” he resumed; “go on board a
torpedo boat that will be waiting, intercept the ship, and bring Miss
Byrd here at the earliest possible moment. She will probably be willing
to come. If not, you must try to persuade her.”

“She will come, Mr. President. I know her personally.”

“So much the better. I am sending you, Mr. Topham, because of your
connection with the case. The Count of Ouro Preto is on board the
Southern Cross. He must not be allowed to interfere.”

“He shall not be, sir.”

“Miss Byrd sent this dispatch to the Gazette by wireless last night.
Mr. Loren will give you a copy of it. From the position of the vessel
at that time, you can calculate where she will be tonight. Probably you
can locate her by wireless. Do you understand?”

“Fully, sir.”

“Then consult with Mr. Loren and Mr. Metson, and go. Lose no time.”




CHAPTER XXIII


Leaning alternately to right and to left to meet the roll of the ship,
Ouro Preto made his way along the deck of the Southern Cross, his eyes
fixed on a vacant chair by Lillian Byrd’s side. Miss Byrd saw him
coming, and longed to escape, but could not do so.

She did not wish to talk with the count, although she had come on board
the Southern Cross at Buenos Ayres for the express purpose of obtaining
from him certain knowledge that she felt sure that he possessed.
For three weeks she had been working, quietly and unobtrusively but
effectively, to gain it, and when she saw him approaching she felt that
success was about to crown her efforts.

Yet in that moment of prospective triumph contrition seized her, and
she looked down, panic-stricken, striving to gain time.

Dismayed, she asked herself why she should hesitate. It was not from
any pity for Ouro Preto. Pity is the only for the weak and Ouro
Preto was not weak. Nor did her hesitation arise from sympathy or
friendship. Miss Byrd was experienced enough to know that no woman
could feel either sympathy or friendship for Ouro Preto except at
her peril; besides, she told herself that she did not even like him.
His attitude toward her irritated her; and his pride, based on his
father’s wealth and his mother’s ancestry, was as offensive as it was
unconscious.

Nor was she ashamed of her work; at least, she had never been so before.

Miss Byrd did not know why she hesitated and the fact that she did
hesitate both angered and frightened her.

Ouro Preto did not realize the situation. His admiration for Miss Byrd
had begun long before in Berlin and had steadily increased since the
day he had come on board the Southern Cross and found her, and had
grown intense as the voyage wore on. When the ship reached Barbadoes,
at which island he had expected to transfer to his own yacht, which had
come from Hamburg to meet him, he had been unable to tear himself away
from the fascinating American and had decided to go on to New York on
the Southern Cross and sail for Germany from there. Again and again he
had striven to place his relations with her on a sentimental footing,
but always she evaded him, and the closing days of the voyage found
him uncertain as to her feelings and determined to bring matters to a
climax. He never guessed that it was on just this that Miss Byrd was
counting.

When he reached her chair, he stood over it until he forced her to
raise her eyes. Then he bowed. “May I sit down?” he asked.

For a moment the girl did not answer. Then she put out her hand and
pushed the chair near her an inch or two farther away. “The chair
belongs to the ship and the deck belongs to whomever occupies it,” she
replied coldly, though her heart was fluttering.

The smile faded from Ouro Preto’s face. “Oh! but why are you so cruel,”
he cried, wildly. “What have I done to anger you? Is it that my love
offends you?”

Miss Byrd gasped. “I am not offended at all,” she answered briskly,
ignoring the suggestion in the young fellow’s last words. “I am merely
tired--bored if you will--by the length of this never-ending voyage. I
am a very bad-tempered young woman, senor; and if you knew me at all
well you would realize how unpleasant I am likely to be when I am
bored.” The girl spoke hurriedly, feeling for words which would not be
too rude and which might yet stave off the proposal which she felt was
imminent.

But Ouro Preto was not to be stopped. “I do not believe it, senorita,”
he babbled. “No, I do not believe it. You are altogether sweet and
lovely--fit for a duchess. And I can make you one, senorita. Great
things are impending. A few weeks more and I will be a duke and--”

His words steadied the girl. “Stop!” she cried. “I will not listen. I
am not the inexperienced girl you think me. I am--”

“You are the one woman for me. You do not love me, senorita. I know it.
But I can teach you to love me if you will give me the chance. And I
can give you much--much. I do not speak of money--no! no! do not think
of it! Money is nothing! I can give you more than money. I can give you
position, rank, fame.”

Miss Byrd forced a laugh. “Where?” she demanded. “In Brazil?”

“In Brazil, yes, at first; then where you will. Listen, senorita, my
mother is descended from the princely German house of Hochstein, now
extinct in the male line. The emperor is about to revive its honors
and vest them in me--in me, do you understand. And this is not all.
I am at the head of a great movement. Since I was a boy of sixteen I
have been laboring for it, and now at last the time is ripe. Only one
obstacle remains, and I am about to sweep it aside. Then--then--”

The man’s eyes burned: his breath came hot and fast. His tones carried
the intoxication of assured success.

“It is a great game and a great stake,” he hurried on. “A great game.
Its web involves four continents; it stretches from Brazil across both
the Atlantic and the Pacific and far to the northward. And at its
center I sit. Strand by strand I have woven it and tested it. It cannot
break. Why! see here!”

He thrust his hand into his pocket and drew out a paper, which he tore
apart with shaking fingers. “See!” he cried. “See what the emperor has
written. With his own hand he has written it! Read! Read!”

The girl pushed away his hand. “No! No!” she cried. “I won’t read! I
won’t listen.”

But the man would not be denied. “Read! Read!” he clamored. “Read! See
what the emperor promises.” Determinedly he thrust the paper before
her eyes, and held it there while its words burned themselves into the
girl’s brain, never to be forgotten.

“You see! You see!” he cried.

Miss Byrd drew back. Her brain was whirling. Half understood facts and
unintelligible rumors had suddenly blended into a comprehensive whole.
Rutile’s fancies had become facts--the facts of a great political
conspiracy. It was not merely what Ouro Preto had said; taken alone
that might be set down as the vaporings of a dreamer who took wishes
and fancies for facts. But dreamers do not receive letters such as his
from the Kaiser; and their dreams are not corroborated by a horde of
apparently unrelated facts such as Miss Byrd had in her possession.

The man was still speaking. “Only one thing remains in my way now,” he
triumphed. “Nothing but these cursed Yankees can oppose me. And now I
am going to draw their teeth. Too long have they assumed to control the
destinies of all the Americans. Too long have they stood in my way.
Now--now I am about to eliminate them--to crush them if they dare to
interpose. Thank God you are English--”

“But I am not English!”

The man started back. “Not English!” he babbled. “Not English! Are you
not the niece of Lord Maxwell?”

“No! I am--I am--Count! I have deceived you. I have let you think me
English. I knew you had a secret and I wanted to wheedle it out of you.
I am ashamed--ashamed. I don’t know why! I never was ashamed of my work
before. But I am now. You cannot say anything too bad for me. I deserve
it all.” The girl bowed her head and her shoulders shook.

The man caught her wrist, and spun her around to face him. “You are a
government spy?” he demanded desperately.

The girl shook her head. “No! I am a newspaper woman.”

The man’s bowed shoulders suddenly straightened. Hope sprang up in
him. “A newspaper woman! Then--then--Come! That is not so bad. You can
resign and marry me.”

But Lillian shook her head. “No! No! I cannot,” she murmured. “I am
sorry, but--I cannot.”

Ouro Preto stared at her. Then: “Well? Let that go for the moment.
Later--But now--See? I am rich! very rich! I will pay you two--three
years’ salary and you will forget all that I have said. It is a
bargain? No?”

But the girl bowed her head miserably. “Oh!” she cried. “I have fallen
low--low! I said you could say nothing too hard for me to hear, but I
never dreamed that you--you of all men--would offer me money! that you
should think me for sale. I am shamed. I have had to earn my own living
and I have done it. I have gone on from step to step, not realizing.
But, believe me, I never did anything quite so indefensible as this
before. I never tricked a man’s love to get his secret before.”

The man was listening intently. But his thoughts were clearly of
himself, and not of her. He seemed to have forgotten the words of love
that he had breathed only a few moments before. When he spoke his tones
still trembled, but with an emotion very different from love.

“Then you will not forget?” he asked.

“How can I?” whispered the girl, miserably. “If I only could! But I
can’t! I can’t. I can resign and I will. I shall give nothing to the
paper about you. If your secret were almost anything but what it is, I
would repeat it to no one. But”--the girl’s figure straightened--“but
you are plotting against my country! and I must warn those who should
know. I must! I must! You see that, don’t you, Count?”

Pleadingly she leaned forward and gazed up into his face.

“You would not have me a traitor, would you?” she questioned,
pitifully. “I don’t know just what you and your emperor are plotting,
but I can guess and I must report it. Why! count, my ancestors have
been Americans for nearly three hundred years. They have been soldiers,
statesman, patriots! I can’t be the first of my line to play the
traitor. I can’t let the Emperor William plot against my country
without warning.”

The man forced a laugh. “Plots! Plots! What are you talking about?
There is no plot. Only a--a--oh, nothing at all. It is only a--a
diplomatic errand to your State Department. Surely it needs no warning
against my diplomacy. Plots! Heavens! What sort of a plot could Germany
carry through against the United States. Your strenuous President would
smash any plot in a moment, even at the cost of war. And do you think
Germany wants war? No! No! a thousand times no. It is only a diplomatic
triumph that I seek to win. To lose it would discredit me for all
time. You do not wish for that! No! No! senorita! Your government
needs no help from you. Let it play its own game.”

But the girl shook her head. In her mind’s eye she saw the web of which
Ouro Preto had spoken. Wide and strong it stretched over half the
world. Beneath its shadow she could see the flash of cannon and the
smoke of ruined cities, with half the world bathed in blood.

The vision faded. Once more she saw the swaying deck, flashing waves,
the masts and funnels tracing wide arcs across the blue firmament.
Ouro Preto was still speaking; he was asking her something--something
that she could not understand. With new eyes she looked upon him.
All fascination, all liking, all friendship had vanished. She could
see only the enemy with whom she must cope. Blindly she struggled to
her feet, pushed past the man’s opposing arms and fled away to her
stateroom.

That night she sent the long wireless message that McNew showed to the
President.




CHAPTER XXIV


Dusk was falling when the torpedo boat Watson turned her nose seaward
and sped away from Old Point with all the vigor of her quadruple
expansion engines. Topham had climbed on board half a minute before,
and full speed ahead had been signalled to the engines as his foot had
touched the deck.

Lieutenant Quentin, commander of the Watson, acknowledged his salute
with due ceremony. “I have been instructed by telegraph to proceed to
sea under your orders the moment you arrive, Mr. Topham,” he announced.

Topham bowed. “Very good, Mr. Quentin. Please run to the capes of the
Chesapeake, keeping as far south as possible. Have your wireless ready
for use as soon as we get outside the bay. Meanwhile I will go over the
charts with you and lay a course.”

Down in the cabin he bent over a chart spread upon the table, and
punched a small hole in it with the point of his pencil.

“The Southern Cross was here at 10 last night,” he said. “She was
bound for New York, and was running presumably about twelve knots an
hour.” He ruled a pencil line on the map and scaled off 220 miles along
it. “She should be about here?” he decided, “at nine tonight. Twenty
miles an hour would bring us to the same point at about the same hour.
Therefore, Mr. Quentin, please make your course east-southeast, nothing
south, as soon as we get to the capes.”

Quentin nodded and gave the orders. “Anything else, sir?” he questioned.

“Not just yet. Our errand is to find the Southern Cross and bring
ashore one of her passengers. So, in good time, you can give orders
to try to raise her by wireless. That’s about the only way outside of
plain bull beck that we could possibly locate her tonight.”

“Right you are!” Ceremony was satisfied, and Quentin relaxed. “Say,
Walter,” he exclaimed, “the Secretary must be in a horrible hurry to
reach her. She’d be in New York day after tomorrow.”

“It’s the President and not the Secretary, and he is in a hurry indeed.
I’m not at liberty to tell you why. The passenger--a lady--sent a
wireless ashore last night, and the message reached the President this
morning. The whole affair is to be kept a strict secret.”

“Of course. The lady’ll be expecting us, then?”

“I think not. I’m pretty sure not. But she’ll be glad to come, I think.
She’s a newspaper woman--a Miss Lillian Byrd. You know her, don’t you?”

“Know her! I should say I did. Wasn’t I sweet on her once. Why! You old
hypocrite, you know her yourself. By Jove! I’m remembering! You were
the hardest hit of all the fellows--”

But Topham shook his head. “No! that’s over long ago,” he answered,
soberly. “She turned me down very hard, and I--well, I’ve gotten over
it. This isn’t a question of romance, you know. It’s serious--more
serious than I can tell you.”

The torpedo boat heeled far over; then rolled back again. Quentin rose.
“We’ve reached the capes, evidently,” he remarked. “I’ll go to the deck
and take charge.” He glanced at the chart. “East-southeast a little
east!” he repeated. “Make yourself comfortable, old man. I’ll notify
you if anything turns up, or if the wireless man catches anything.”

But Topham shook his head. “No! I’ll come on deck, too,” he said.

Steadily the Watson thrashed eastward into the deepening night, not
rising on the waves but cutting through them and getting the full
benefit of their differential lift. Steadily, too, the wireless
operator sent his call across the waters.

It was two hours before he got an answer. Then, as ordered, he sent
word to Topham, and the latter hurried to his side.

“I’ve got the Southern Cross,” he announced.

“Good! Tell him who we are. Have him notify the captain that I wish to
come aboard him, and ask for his position and course and speed.”

The operator’s fingers played over the key--the ridiculously
exaggerated key of the wireless. Soon he stopped and noted the reply
upon a blank sheet of paper.

Topham called a messenger and sent the note to Quentin, asking him
to lay his course accordingly. Then he turned back to the wireless
operator.

“Ask him whether Miss Lillian Byrd is on board?” he said.

Promptly came an affirmative answer.

“Please tell her that Commander Topham of the Navy will be alongside
in about half an hour to take her ashore, and ask her to be ready for
transfer. Tell the captain that Mr. Topham apologizes for the trouble
he is giving, but that the matter is imperative.”

The operator tapped off the message. “The operator has gone to deliver
them, sir,” he explained. “He’ll call again in a few minutes.”

But more than a few minutes chased themselves across the clock’s face
before the Southern Cross again made herself heard. In fact, the
“Light! Ho!” of the lookout at the bow of the Watson was sounding
before her call came again.

For an instant the operator listened; then he snatched up his pencil
and began to write. Topham, looking over his shoulder, read the words.

“Miss Byrd cannot be found. Was on board at nine o’clock. Count of Ouro
Preto, another passenger, has also vanished. No trace of either found.”

“Good God! Ask him if they have no idea what has become of them!”

Again the operator wrote: “No trace of either can be found, but we
suspect Ouro Preto carried girl off. His yacht has been following us
all the way from Barbadoes. He sent a code wireless to it last night.
Saw her lights very close behind us an hour ago.”

In silent consternation Topham read the message. It confirmed his
instant guess as to what had happened. To keep his secret Ouro Preto
had snatched the girl from under the President’s very fingers. Just how
he had managed it was not of import, except as concerned the welfare of
the girl herself; and Topham was very sure by now that more important
things were at stake than the fate even of Lillian Byrd.

What should he do? What should he do?

What could he do? In what quarter of the sea should he seek for the
fleeing yacht?

Suddenly the operator began to write again. “Somebody’s breaking in,”
he explained. “Not the Southern Cross; somebody else.” His fingers
raced over the paper.

  “Heard you talking,” ran the message. “This is the yacht Windbird.
  Ouro Preto just came aboard bringing Miss Byrd with him. We are due
  south of Southern Cross, going east. Will try to keep you advised.
  Can’t say much, or I may excite suspicion. Follow.--Rutile.”




CHAPTER XXV


When Rutile ran down to Hamburg to see what he could learn about the
gun-running expeditions that Lillian Byrd had warned him were leaving
that port he had nothing in mind beyond making a few inquiries which,
if it seemed best, he might tip off to the Brazilian government.
Circumstances, however, played into his hands and led him into a far
more extensive adventure than he had foreseen.

In early life Rutile had intended to be a sailor. He had been appointed
a cadet at the naval academy at Annapolis and had gone through the full
four years course there and the requisite two succeeding years of sea
service. If Uncle Sam had been willing he would have remained in the
navy. But in those days Uncle Sam had no navy worth speaking about,
and every year he deliberately turned adrift about two-thirds of the
gallant young fellows whom he had been training for six years. Only
about a score of each class graduated received commissions. Rutile was
one of those dropped with a year’s pay.

Balked in following his chosen profession the young fellow had gone
in for diplomacy. But he had never lost his fondness for the sea, and
being blessed (or cursed) with abundance of money, had continued to
keep in touch with sea life and to spend a month or more afloat every
year. His father had been German born and he himself had been familiar
with the language from childhood. He was thus qualified for the task he
had set himself.

Arrived at Hamburg his first move was to take lodgings in a cheap
quarter of the town and there to slip into such clothes as a petty
ship’s officer would be likely to wear. These donned, he went out and
wandered along the water front, chatting with sailors and pretending to
be on the lookout for a berth as wireless operator, a calling that he
had chosen chiefly because he was very certain that no ship’s captain
was likely to put his good faith to the test by offering him a job.
Incidentally he kept his ears open for news of the filibusters.

To a certain extent his task proved surprisingly simple. A few drinks
and a few hours loafing told him that Miss Byrd’s suspicions were
well-founded. The munitions of war supplied to the rebels in Southern
Brazil had been shipped from Hamburg, practically without concealment,
a few months before. He learned, moreover, that three or four ships
supposed to be similarly laden had recently sailed for South American
ports; “and yonder,” continued his informant, pointing with the stem of
his pipe; “yonder lies the flagship. They say she’ll be sailing soon.”

Rutile needed no second glance to identify the vessel indicated. She
was Ouro Preto’s yacht, which he had often seen. Nevertheless, he
loafed out upon the docks for a nearer view.

Work was being knocked off for the day as he strolled to the end of the
stone pier and stared across the dirty water to where the yacht was
lying. He noticed that she had steam up, and guessed that his informant
was right, and that she intended to leave very soon indeed. As he
watched he saw a steam launch leave her side and come puffing toward
the shore.

Dusk was falling fast, and at last he turned away, feeling that he had
accomplished all that he had come down to do.

He knew that it was no use to try to stop the yacht’s sailing; the
very openness with which the thing had been carried on was proof of the
connivance of the authorities. His best, and indeed his only course was
to hurry back to Berlin and notify both the United States and Brazilian
governments.

He was about to step off the pier when he saw two men coming toward
him. One of them he recognized as the man with whom he had been talking
not long before. As they drew near this man jerked his head in his
direction and spoke to the other.

“That’s him,” he said. Rutile heard the words distinctly.

The second man, who was clearly an officer of some sort, changed his
course slightly, and stopped just in front of the American.

“I understand you are looking for a berth as wireless operator,” he
said gruffly, in German.

Rutile concealed his astonishment as well as he could. “I am,” he
answered, promptly, in the same tongue.

“Good.” The officer turned to the man who accompanied him, and handed
him a coin. “All right!” he said. “Be off.”

Then he swung back to Rutile. “My name’s Caspar,” he said. “I’m second
mate of the yacht Windbird. That’s her yonder.” He indicated Ouro
Preto’s yacht. “Our operator took suddenly ill and I just brought him
ashore.” Rutile remembered the launch he had seen leaving the yacht.
“We’re sailing in an hour and want an operator in a hurry and the
Marconi people can’t supply us in less than twenty-four hours. If
you’re sure you’re qualified and would like the berth you can have it.”

Before the man had half finished Rutile had seen what was coming and
had done some rapid thinking. Mad as he admitted his acceptance of the
proposition would be, it nevertheless tempted him strongly. He was an
adventurous fellow, was Rutile; and the danger of the thing appealed to
him. As wireless operator he must necessarily be trusted to an extent
that would give him a chance to find out something really valuable
about what he had come to believe was a great political conspiracy. On
the other hand, it was a good deal easier to get into such an adventure
than it would be to get out of it. And what would the Ambassador say?

These thoughts flashed like lightning through his mind, but did not
mirror themselves in his face. He had not been in diplomatic training
for nothing. When the mate stopped he was ready to answer.

“I’ll take it,” he declared.

“Good! Can you come now?”

“Now?” Events were moving too quick even for Rutile’s hasty nature.

“Yes!” impatiently. “It’s now or not at all. I told you we sailed
within an hour.”

Rutile shook his head. “I’ve got to have half an hour,” he declared
positively. “I’ve got a room near here and I’ve got to pay for it and
get my dunnage. But I’ll be ready in half an hour.”

The mate hesitated. “I suppose that’s got to do,” he acquiesced at
last. “Yonder’s the launch. I’ll wait for you half an hour and not a
minute longer. Hurry.”

Rutile hurried, and was back within the time allowed. He had spent half
of it in talking with the Ambassador over the long-distance telephone,
and most of the other half in buying an outfit for the trip.

“I’m taking you on trust,” observed the mate, as the launch puffed
toward the Windbird. “But the old man won’t. He trusts nobody. If
you’re not qualified you’d better say so now. It isn’t quite so long a
swim ashore from here.”

Rutile grinned. “Oh! I’m qualified,” he insisted. “What system have
you?”

“Marconi!”

“That’s all right. I understand it perfectly. You’ll remember that I’m
taking a good deal on trust, too. Where are we bound?”

“Barbadoes first. Afterwards--who knows? We’re going down to meet the
owner and then we’ll go where he says.”

“Humph!” Rutile considered. “I guess I’ll only sign for Barbadoes,” he
declared. “By the time we get there I’ll know whether I care to stay or
not.”




CHAPTER XXVI


Lillian Byrd kept in her cabin most of the day after she sent her
dispatch to the Gazette, leaving it only for meals and slipping back
to it the moment these were finished. Although she had done only what
she had felt to be her duty, she yet shrank from facing Ouro Preto and
confessing her action.

She knew that he would not consider her last words final, but would
urge her to change them; and it was largely the fear that she might not
be as steadfast as she wanted to be that led her to send the dispatch
giving McNew the information that she had gained and urging him to lay
it before the President of the country. She felt that the count had a
powerful influence over her, and that she could be sure of herself only
when it was out of her power to accede to his wishes. Later she felt
really afraid to face him.

Face him she must sooner or later, however. Even if he remained
quiescent she could not well seclude herself for the remainder of the
trip; and few things seemed to be more certain than that he would
not remain quiescent. He would insist on seeing her; the fact that he
left her in peace for twenty-four hours merely showed either that he
was content to let her consider matters quietly, or that he, too, was
uncertain as to what was to be done.

Lillian was not ordinarily a coward, and after a day’s reflection the
situation grew intolerable to her, and she determined to give the count
an opportunity to bring matters to a focus. Bitter as his reproaches
might be, they could not be worse than the anticipation of them. She
would face him and bear his words as best she might.

Evening therefore saw her upon the deck in the self-same spot where he
had found her the evening before--waiting.

She waited long! Daylight waned and vanished. The crescent moon
flashed out for an hour and then followed the sun below the horizon,
leaving the big stars as sole lights in the firmament. She looked aft
across the water to where the three lights of Ouro Preto’s yacht had
burned night after night, and noted that they were closer than she had
ever seen them before. Little by little the decks had grown empty as
the passengers had slipped away to more congenial occupations than
watching the white boiling spume of the wake and listening to the
swish of the waves along the steamer’s sides. One or two soft-footed
figures--stewards or sailors engaged in ships tasks--moved ghost-like
beneath the awnings, but if any others were still on deck they were
hidden in the shadows. For all that Lillian could see she was alone.

Four bells struck and still the count had not come. Lillian did not
know whether to be glad or angry. On the one hand she was relieved
to be spared what he might say; on the other she was woman enough to
resent his neglect, as if he had found her further actions or words
unimportant. When he did come at last she was in the mood for combat
rather than apology.

He bowed as he came up, and wished her a good-evening. Then for a few
moments he stood looking down at her in silence, not as if hesitating
as to what he was to say, but rather as one acting in accordance with
some set plan.

“I have come for my answer,” he said, at last, with a tremor in his
voice. “Will you give it to me?”

“Your answer?” Amazement drove all other emotion from Lillian’s mind.
Not thus had she expected Ouro Preto to address her.

“Yes!” Surprise, real or pretended, sounded in the Brazilian’s tones.
“But, yes! I asked you to marry me last night and you ran away without
answering. Ah! Senorita. You do not know what this day has been to me!
One moment I hope! the next I despair. I love you, senorita. Will you
not say that you too love me!”

Lillian’s thoughts whirled, aimless as the spray from the steamer’s
bow. “But--but--” she gasped. “The Emperor! Your great plot! You--All
of it.”

Ouro Preto stared. Then he laughed gently. “Por Dios! senorita!” he
cried. “Have you not forgotten that--that bombast?”

“Bombast?”

“But yes!” He waved his hand airily. “Nothing more! Waste no more
thought over it. It is gone! But you remain--you and I! Will you not
think of my suit. Ah! Senorita! If you but understand how I love you!”

But Lillian shook her head. “I can not forget it,” she declared,
stubbornly, refusing to be diverted. “I cannot forget it. I wish I
could. I am ashamed that I should have imposed upon you as I did. I
wish that you had not told me but now that you have done so, I cannot
forget and I cannot keep it secret. In fact, I must tell you that I
have already--”

The count flung up his hand. “No! No! Think once more, senorita,” he
pleaded.

“I can not. I have--”

“Then, senorita, I must take other measures. I have given you every
chance, and you have refused. Now--Now!”

The man did not even raise his voice. In exactly the same tones as
those he had been using, he repeated his last word “Now!”

Vaguely uneasy; fearing she knew not what, Lillian started to rise.
But before she could do so, a towel saturated with some heavy-smelling
stuff, was flung over her face from behind, and her head was drawn
suddenly back. Vainly she tried to scream; the muffling towel was too
thick. She gasped for breath, plucking with futile fingers at the
bandage. Then her brain reeled; and darkness came over her.

Ouro Preto stood silently, quietly watching her struggles. When at last
she lay still he spoke in a low tone to the sailor who held her.

“Loosen the towel a little and give her air,” he ordered. “I don’t want
to suffocate her.”

As the man obeyed the count stepped to the taffrail, and stared back
to where the lights of his yacht gleamed through the darkness. After
a moment he lifted the rear light of the steamer from its box, and
swung it in wide wagon wheel convolutions--swung it until from out of
the waters behind him a white sword of light sprang up and cleft the
zenith. Right and left it wheeled, cutting fantastic zigzags across the
milky way, but never by any chance falling upon the Southern Cross.

His yacht had hung on the heels of the Southern Cross all the way from
Barbadoes, until those upon the steamer had ceased to pay attention
to her. On that particular night she had closed in until scarcely an
eighth of a mile of smooth rolling water separated the two vessels.
When the search light sprang up, the officers on the Southern Cross
watched it for a moment and then turned to more important things,
neither noting nor caring that the yacht was rapidly eating up the
distance that had separated her from them.

Meanwhile Ouro Preto was busy. From a rack above his head he took two
life preservers; one he bound around himself, and the other he handed
to his confederate to fasten around Miss Byrd’s unconscious form.

“Come along,” he ordered, turning to the starboard quarter, whence a
trailing rope ladder--a so-called Jacob’s ladder--depended, its lower
end just touching the crests of the waves as they rolled past.

He climbed over the rail and took a step or two down the swaying
ladder. “Give me the girl,” he ordered.

But the man held back. “Say, Mister,” he protested. “I ain’t standing
for no murder.”

Ouro Preto glared at him. “Neither am I, you fool,” he snarled. “It’s
all arranged. I can swim like a fish, and my yacht will pick us up in
less than five minutes. See how near she is.”

The man looked up. The yacht was indeed very near.

“Give me the girl,” ordered the count, again, and this time the sailor
obeyed.

Ouro Preto balanced Lillian over his shoulder and descended the Jack
ladder step by step. When he reached the water’s edge he stopped.

“Swing the light around your head twice,” he called, softly.

The sailor obeyed and instantly the yacht’s searchlight crept along
the water until it rested with sudden brilliancy on the stern of the
Southern Cross and on Ouro Preto where he clung to the Jacob’s ladder
with Lillian in his arms.

For only an instant he clung; then he descended the last two or three
steps of the ladder and when the next wave came let go his hold and
dropped upon its crest.

The fall carried the two beneath the surface, but the life preservers
brought them up again as quickly as a bobbing cork. In the interval,
brief as it was, the Southern Cross had drawn away; the count could
see her stern light rapidly lessening in the distance. The yacht’s
searchlight came and went, sweeping over him often enough to prevent
his being lost in the waters, but not often enough to attract belated
attention from the Southern Cross.

Then Lillian revived, drawn back to life by the shock of the chill
water. Half conscious, bewildered, terror stricken, she struggled
desperately to free herself from the count and he let her go for an
instant only to grasp hold of her life belt again as a wave tried to
force them apart.

“It’s all right, Miss Byrd,” he declared. “It’s all right. Don’t be
frightened.”

But Lillian would not heed. “Help! Help!” she screamed across the water.

Ouro Preto made no effort to check her. “It is of no use, senorita,” he
declared, simply. “The Southern Cross is half a mile away and cannot
hear you.”

Miss Byrd gripped at her sinking courage. She realized that she was not
drowning, and she tried desperately to calm herself. “How dare you?”
she choked. “How dare you?”

The count shrugged his shoulders. “I was forced,” he explained. “I
could not let you wreck the plan of years. Believe me, senorita, it
grieves me to the heart to use such means as these. I love you and--”

“Love!”

“Yes! Love! You may not believe it. I cannot blame you if you do not,
but it is true. And, senorita, have no fear. We will be on my yacht
in a few minutes; and you will be as safe there as you were on the
Southern Cross. I will release you very soon--as soon as safety will
allow--probably within two weeks. But I cannot permit the knowledge of
my plans to reach Washington just now!”

Lillian was no longer frightened. The circling searchlight flashed
across her face, and very close at hand she heard the noise of oars in
rowlocks. Besides she was choking with rage, and rage had driven out
fear.

It was on the tip of her tongue to tell the count that his action was
vain; that his plans had already been wirelessed to land and had very
probably already been printed broadcast. How she could exult over him!
But on second thoughts she held her tongue. She knew instinctively that
he would not under any circumstances restore her to the steamer from
which he had taken her. Perhaps he could not do so even if he would,
and she felt sure that he would not if he could.

When the Southern Cross reached port, she would be looked for, and her
and his disappearance would be understood, and steps would be taken for
her rescue. To tell him would merely be to warn him and cause him to
take precautions that might lessen her chances of early freedom.

Besides, now that the thing was done, she was beginning to feel that
it might all be for the best. She no longer felt the least regret over
her own action. The fact that the count had gone to the lengths he did
to seal her lips proved that something of great moment was afoot. Her
disappearance would add more force to the warning she had sent than
would anything she could say. And here she was forcibly forked into
the very focus of the conspiracy where, if anywhere, she would have an
opportunity to learn all about its tangled threads. And if she learned
anything she would no longer hesitate to use it. Since Ouro Preto had
resorted to open war, she could fight back with good grace. For herself
she had no fear. She did not believe that he would dare to harm her. On
the whole, she began to feel rather glad that she had been kidnapped.

Ouro Preto had been watching her in silence. “Well?” he questioned.

Lillian shrugged her shoulders. “Well!” she replied definitively.
“Since I can’t help myself, I yield for the time being. But I warn you
that you will have to pay some day.”

The count leaned forward. “I am ready to pay now,” he cried eagerly;
“to pay with all I have. Marry me, and--”

“No thank you! Change the subject, please! How did you get me away from
the steamer?”

Ouro Preto spread out his hands. “Very easily,” he explained. “I carry
much gold. The man on watch at the steamer’s quarter wanted it, and
so--Oh! It was easy. But”--he looked up--“But, senorita, here is the
Windbird. The men will lift you on board.”

At full speed the boat came slopping alongside. Two of the sailors
dropped their oars and dragged the girl into the boat, and an instant
later Ouro Preto clambered in beside her. Two minutes later both were
on board the Windbird.

As Lillian, dripped and bedraggled but unconquered, went to her cabin,
she and the wireless operator met face to face. For one breathless
instant she hesitated; then Rutile lifted his cap and stepped aside.

“Pardon, fraulein,” he said.

Miss Byrd bowed in acknowledgment. “On guard!” she whispered.




CHAPTER XXVII


Through the night, full speed, with all lights extinguished, ran the
Watson, her only guide the information contained in Rutile’s brief
and indefinite message over the wireless. If this were correct--if
the yacht had indeed run due east for half an hour and if she should
continue in the same direction and at the same speed, and if her speed
were about 18 knots an hour (as it probably was), it was a mere matter
of calculation to determine where and when the Watson would overtake
her.

But there were many “ifs” in these premises. The night was dark; the
moon had set hours before, and the stars were invisible behind a
light film of clouds. If the Windbird should run without lights, as
she certainly would if Ouro Preto should suspect pursuit (and as she
might in any case), she would be invisible even at close range, unless
betrayed by the glow from her funnels. To find her without further help
from Rutile would be like seeking a needle in the darkest sort of a
haystack. Even with Rutile’s aid, Topham felt that he had no right to
hope to find her while night lasted. He did hope, however, to hang so
closely on her heels that her smoke should be visible above the horizon
when morning dawned.

Swiftly the moments sped by, and steadily the destroyer ate up the
miles supposed to intervene between her and the yacht. No further
signals came, and Topham, not knowing what conditions might be on the
Windbird or who might read off any message that he might send flying
through the dark, forebore to call, despite Quentin’s advice to take
the chance.

He yielded only when the Watson had reached the spot where calculation
placed the Windbird.

“I guess you’d better call Rutile, Mr. Quentin,” he ordered. “We’ll be
passing the yacht the first thing we know.”

Quentin was about to give the order when the operator suddenly began to
write.

“Do you hear me?” he scribbled, as the words come through the night.
“Answer if you do.”

“I hear,” tapped the operator.

“Am using reduced power. Been ordered to call H. I. M. Kaiserland,
supposed to be somewhere near. Can see light from somebody’s funnels
and suspect it’s yours or hers. If it’s yours you’re due north of us,
mighty near.”

Topham leaped for the companionway. “South by east, Mr. Quentin,” he
ordered. “Half speed. Keep sharp lookout! We’re close on her.”

“Tell him that,” he ordered, turning back to the operator.

“Good!” Came the answer. “You don’t want the Kaiserland to beat you to
it. She’s an armored cruiser.”

Quentin bent over the cabin skylight. “Saw her funnels flash just now,”
he cried, excitedly. “How about the searchlight?”

“Turn it on.”

Topham leaped on deck. As he did so the broad white sword of the
searchlight flashed through the darkness, lighting up the rolling water
and picking out the Windbird black against the night, scarce a cable
length away. The blinding light showed her every detail--showed her
masts and funnels and the white tracery of her rigging, silvered the
edges of the black smoke that trailed away behind her, and showed, too,
her half dozen rapid fire guns, with their crews manned and ready.

“Hail them. Say you’ll send a boat,” ordered Topham.

Quentin flung up his megaphone. “Windbird ahoy,” he bellowed. “Heave
to. I’ll send a boat aboard you.”

As the words left his lips the Windbird’s searchlight flashed out
and lighted up the bulk of the torpedo boat, long and low, far less
formidable to all appearances than the yacht.

A man on the yacht’s bridge raised a megaphone. “Who are you?” he
demanded.

“That’s Ouro Preto talking,” commented Topham, staring through his
glasses.

“The United States Destroyer Watson. Heave to!” ordered Quentin.

“Go to hell!”

Topham’s face flushed. You cannot tell an officer of the United States
Navy to go to hell without consequences. Fortunately the young fellow
was not impulsive. “Easy, Mr. Quentin,” he cautioned. “Warn him once
more.”

“For the last time, heave to, you damned pirate,” shouted Quentin.
“Heave to! or I’ll fire into you.”

Back came the answer. “Fire if you dare!”

Quentin lowered the megaphone. His eyes glittered and his breast
swelled with unholy joy. “It’s up to us,” he suggested.

“Send a shot between his masts,” ordered Topham. “It may bring him to
his senses.”

“Crack.” The spiteful snap of the aft six-pounder thrilled through
the night, and Topham saw the men on the yacht duck as the projectile
whistled about their heads.

The next instant Ouro Preto’s voice, crazy with rage rose. “Fire!
Fire!” he yelled.

But the yachtsmen did not fire. Ready as most of them were to take the
risks of battle with the Brazilian government, they were not ready to
fire upon a United States ship. Small though it might be, it carried
the power and dignity of the nation.

They did not fire, but still the yacht swept on. “I’ll put the next
shot through your pilot house,” megaphoned Quentin. “Be warned!” “Train
on the pilot house,” he ordered, in tones loud enough to reach the
yacht.

“Ay! Ay! Sir!” The gunners bent to their piece, but before they could
fire the door of the pilot house of the Seabird flew open and a man,
ducking low, ran out. Instantly the yacht, uncontrolled, swung off into
the trough of the waves.

“You damned cowards!” Ouro Preto’s voice was unintelligible with rage.
He snatched up a rifle and flung it to his shoulder, but some one
knocked up his arm and the bullet whistled harmlessly over Topham’s
head.

As the sound lost itself in the immensity of the ocean, Quentin’s voice
sounded. “Heave to!” he ordered, calmly.

The clang of the engine bells answered and the yacht lost way.
Instantly the Watson followed suit, sheering inward as she did so.
Closer they came and closer until the Watson poked her sharp nose under
the yacht’s overhanging counter, and Topham caught the trailing Jacob
ladder and swarmed over the rail and dropped upon her deck.

Ouro Preto faced him. “What does this--this piracy mean?” he demanded.

Topham took no notice of the words. He could afford to ignore them.
Besides Ouro Preto was “her” brother. Politely he saluted.

“I am instructed by the President of the United States to bring him the
young lady whom you kidnapped tonight. Kindly produce her!”

“I won’t do it.”

Topham shrugged his shoulders. “Then I shall be compelled to take you
into port as a pirate,” he said, distinctly.

Ouro Preto shook with the fury that possessed him. The hopes of years
were crumbling before his eyes.

“You have no right,” he clamored. “No right. This is a German vessel--”

“Your pardon. She was once a Brazilian ship, but she has forfeited her
rights by engaging in rebellion against Brazil. She is now an outlaw if
not a pirate. Give up the girl and do not force me to take the vessel
of a former friend into port as a prize.”

Ouro Preto glared for a moment. But before he could utter the defiance
that was on the end of his tongue, a feminine voice broke in.

“Good-evening, Mr. Topham!” it said, sweetly. “You’ve come in good
time.” Lillian Byrd stood smilingly by, with Rutile beside her. As all
eyes were turned on her. She went on. “Mr. Rutile let me out of the
stateroom where the count had locked me. You didn’t know Mr. Rutile was
on board, did you, Count?”

Helplessly Ouro Preto stared from one to the other. “Rutile!” he
gasped. “You here?”

Rutile nodded. “Sure thing,” he remarked, genially. “Been on board for
three weeks. Wireless operator, you know. Sorry, but the game’s up, old
man. It is, really!”

“One moment!” A man whom no one had seen before stepped quickly into
the middle of the group. Behind him stood half a dozen sailors.

Gravely he saluted. “Whom have I the honor of addressing?” he demanded,
looking at Topham.

Topham returned the salute. “I am Commander Topham, of the United
States Navy,” he answered, taking in the newcomer’s uniform as he did
so. “And you, mein Herr.”

“I am Commander Metternich, of His Imperial Majesty’s ship Kaiserland.
Captain Vreeland of the Kaiserland learned, through intercepted
wireless messages, that the operator on this ship is a traitor. He
therefore hastened here and sent me on board to demand his surrender.
No one seemed to observe my arrival and I took the liberty of listening
for a moment. What I have heard convinces me that the case is not
so simple as I thought. I therefore take possession of this ship as
a prize of His Imperial Majesty. The Kaiserland will escort her to
Hamburg. If you so desire, sir, you may accompany her.”

Before the last word had fallen from the German’s lips, Topham stepped
between him and Rutile. “Look sharp,” he hissed to the American. Then,
facing the German, he flung out his hand. “I’m delighted to hear you,
commander,” he declared! “Frankly, I didn’t know what to do with the
yacht, which is clearly little better than a pirate, but your action
solves everything. I can’t tell you how much I thank you.”

As he spoke, Topham pressed forward, crowding Metternich backward,
apparently merely by excess enthusiasm. The latter gave way for a
moment, though clearly bewildered by the American’s sudden excess of
friendliness.

Suddenly a warning cry rang out. “Stop them! Quick!” yelled Ouro Preto.
“He’s fooling you. He’s fooling you!”

The Brazilian was right. As Topham grasped the officer’s hand Rutile
caught Lillian by the arm and darted with her toward the rail, only
half a dozen feet away, beyond which lay the Watson. The German sailors
sprang to intercept them, but Rutile, leaving Lillian to scramble over
by herself, turned at bay and struck out savagely twice. Then, before
he could be grasped, he vaulted over the side of the deck of the Watson.

Metternich saw it all over Topham’s shoulder, and with a cry of rage,
he tried to jerk free from the American’s grasp. But Topham laughed and
chattered on for a moment longer. Then releasing the man he sprang back
to the rail.

The crew of the Watson, arms in hand, were swarming up the sides to his
rescue, but he waved them back. One of the German sailors was about to
spring down, and him Topham caught by the shoulders and flung aside.
Then he threw up his hand.

“Stop!” he thundered.

A pause followed, brief but sufficient. Topham did not let it slip.

“Call back your men, commander,” he ordered, sternly. “Are you mad?”

The German hesitated. Wild with rage as he was at the trick that had
been played upon him, he was not so frantic as not to realize the
consequences of forcibly boarding a warship of a friendly nation. To do
so would mean war; or if the Emperor did not want war, it would mean
disgrace for himself. He was only a subordinate, though an able one,
and he had no reason to suppose that Wilhelm did want war. Besides, his
force, though perhaps sufficient to prevent an escape was clearly not
enough for a recapture. Finally he sheathed the sword he had drawn.
“You will wait here till I consult Captain Vreeland,” he declared
positively.

But Topham only laughed. “Your pardon, Commander,” he said. “I have
been delayed too long already. Take your prize into port if you will. I
will content myself with taking the chief witness. Good-night.”

Courteously he lifted his cap; then, turning, he climbed slowly over
the side of the yacht down to the deck of the Watson.

As he went, Metternich caught up a megaphone and bellowed a torrent of
guttural German across the waters toward the Kaiserland. Topham did not
hear the answer that came back, for the moment he had touched the deck
of the Watson she glided away into the night.




CHAPTER XXVIII


When the night had swallowed up both the yacht and the cruiser, Topham
drew a long breath and turned to Lillian.

“Great Scott!” he exclaimed boyishly, “what a yarn this would make for
the Gazette--if you could only print it.”

Lillian bubbled toward him. “Mayn’t I?” she asked, plaintively, but as
one who knew the answer already.

But Topham laughed. “Not a word,” he said. “The situation is too
ticklish. Do you know, young woman, that your respected chief,
Mr. McNew, thought it so serious that he brought your dispatch to
Washington and showed it to the President without publishing it--to the
President, mind you! Your chief and the President! It took something
mighty serious to bring those two together. Do you know that the United
States and Germany were on the brink of war tonight?”

Lillian nodded. “I suppose so,” she answered, seriously, “I suppose,
too, that that German officer--Commander Metternich was he?--will have
trouble over letting us get away.”

Topham nodded, but before he could speak Rutile struck in. “No,” he
said, “I think not. His captain may give him a wigging, but it’s
nothing to what the Kaiser would have done to him if he had gone a
little too far. Wilhelm doesn’t want war. He’s merely bluffing.”

“But”--Topham was amazed. “But he--”

“Yes! I know. But things are not just as you would suppose. I’ve had
nearly a month’s time and first-class opportunities to learn the ins
and outs of the whole conspiracy. If we can go below and sit down, I’ll
try to explain just what I think Wilhelm was after.”

In a few minutes the party was sitting around the table in Quentin’s
cabin. Rutile leaned across it.

“I don’t need to point out,” he began, “that Germany wants colonies
and would prefer southern Brazil if she can get it. Nor do I need
to do more than call attention to the fact that Germany is building
dreadnoughts supposedly to make her equal to England, but that they
really make her much more nearly a rival to the United States. She is
also--but I haven’t heard any very recent news--Is she by any chance
intriguing in Japan?”

“She is,” replied Topham, grimly.

“I suspected so. Well! Here’s the situation. Wilhelm wants Brazil. Ouro
Preto, half a German and son of the richest and most influential man
in southern Brazil, wants a German dukedom. Wilhelm says all right;
earn it if you want it. Go back to Brazil. Start something in the three
southern states. I will help you with arms and officers and munitions.
Make good and I’ll recognize their independence. Then let them ask me
to annex them. You’ve got 2,000,000 Germans down there. They won’t
object. Do this and you’ll get your dukedom.”

Miss Byrd nodded. “That’s about true,” she confirmed. “The count showed
me a letter from the Emperor saying that when south Brazil became a
German colony he would make Ouro Preto the Duke of Hochstein.”

“But,” objected Topham. “The Monroe doctrine--”

“Tush! Tush! The Monroe doctrine is to protect American republics
against European conquest. What’s it got to do with voluntary
annexations?”

Topham knitted his brows. “Of course you are right,” he said
didactically, “as to the original meaning of the Monroe doctrine. But
the meaning has changed. Today it is analogous to the ‘balance of
power’ in Europe, to maintain which so many wars have been fought.
Whatever our motives in establishing it, we support it now as a
measure of protection to ourselves. If we permit one European country
to acquire land over here, others will crowd in and our geographical
isolation--an isolation that saves us from the military terrors and
burdens of Europe--will be at an end. For our own sakes we must keep
Europe away from our doors. I judge the doctrine would be held to
apply.”

“You _judge_!” Rutile snorted “Pish!! Likewise tush! You _judge_! You
are not by any means certain, but after splitting a few hairs you
_judge_ it would apply! Well, how do you suppose twenty or thirty
million German-Americans would judge?”

“Why! They--”

“I’m not saying anything against German-Americans; I’m one of them
myself in the second degree. If it comes to fighting, they’ll fight,
even against the fatherland. But they won’t want to fight Germany.
They’re mighty apt to say ‘Mein Gott! Vas ist loss mit der Dagoes that
we should go to war for them, ain’t it?’ And if the German-Americans
did want to fight, what would the rich man say--the fellows who have
got trade to lose? Don’t you know they’d say ‘To hades with Brazil; we
sell more to Germany in a minute than we do to Brazil in a year!’ And
so it would go. When it came down to a count of noses, you’d find about
the only people that wanted to fight to keep the new republic down in
south Brazil from following their God-twisted noses into the German
fold would be you navy fellows and a few chaps whom the papers would
call jingoes. And if Germany had a fleet as powerful as the United
States, and if the United States had other foreign complications on its
hands--with Japan if you like--how many people would insist on fighting
to save a lot of greasers who didn’t want to be saved. Now, do you
begin to see?”

Topham nodded. The logic of the situation was too strong for him.
Rutile’s words brought into vivid consonance all the scattered facts
that he himself had noted. He was beginning to understand, as Europe
had understood long before, that the warlord of Germany was the most
wonderful diplomat the world had known for a century--one who knew how
to mask the cunning of a Machiavelli beneath the bluffness of a soldier
and the reckless speech of a boy. His was not the iron hand in the
velvet glove. With him glove was iron, but the hand was not in it; it
was outside, pulling the strings that made the puppets dance.

Topham saw it all. Yet he ventured one more objection, not because he
put much faith in it, but because he wanted to hear Rutile’s answer.

“But,” he said, “suppose the people of the new republics should
not want to be annexed,” he began. “Suppose they wanted to remain
independent--”

“Bosh! Much the people would have to say about it! The leaders would
decide, and by the time the people woke up, Germany would be in
possession. Wilhelm has got the leaders, body and soul; you can bet on
that. This isn’t the first time he’s tried it, you know. It was all
framed up ten or fifteen years ago when the Mello rebellion came off.
Germany was behind the rebels then, and Washington knew it. Didn’t the
President rush a fleet down to Rio, and didn’t Admiral Benham smash
the rebellion when he found the Brazilian government couldn’t do it?”

“Oh! I know he didn’t profess to do so. I know he only stood up for
American rights and all that. But he smashed it all the same, and not
a minute too soon either. And Germany didn’t have any dreadnoughts in
those days, and she wasn’t more than middling anxious for colonies
either. It’s different today!”

“And Japan!”

“Japan! What does Germany care about Japan? It could fight or funk
as it pleased when the time came, if only it would make faces until
Germany got settled in South America. There’s more ways of getting
chestnuts out of the fire than burning your own fingers--and Wilhelm
knows every one of them.”

“But what is to be done?”

“Done! Smash the rebellion in Brazil before Wilhelm can recognize it.
Send a fleet to aid Brazil to blockade her southern coast and cut off
the supplies that Germany is sending. Do? Well! That isn’t your part
nor mine. Our part was to get information. We’ve got it. The President
will do the rest. It’s up to him now.”




CHAPTER XXIX


At eleven o’clock the next morning Topham, Rutile and Miss Byrd
were ushered into the presence of the President. No train had been
convenient, and the Watson had brought them all the way to Washington.
Her coming had been wired, ahead, and an automobile had been in waiting
to rush them to the White House.

One by one the President heard their stories, his square jaw growing
squarer and squarer as he listened. Now and then he asked a question,
sharp and pertinent, but for the most part he kept silence--a sure
proof that he regarded the case as very serious.

When at last the stories had been finished, he nodded. “Between you,”
he said, “you seem to have gotten the thing down pretty fine. What you
have told me today confirms what I felt sure of yesterday after I had
heard the story of Commander Topham brought from San Francisco and had
read the dispatch Miss Byrd sent from the Southern Cross. Mr. Rutile’s
information welds it all and makes its inferences unmistakable. Now
that I know, I can checkmate my great and good friend across the water.
In fact, I have checkmated him already.”

The President turned to his secretary. “Have you a copy of today’s New
York Gazette?” he asked.

The secretary handed him a paper, and he reached it out to Topham. “You
heard me promise Mr. McNew a scoop yesterday, Mr. Topham,” he remarked.
“So I called in his correspondent last night and gave him this. It was
quite widely printed this morning. Read it aloud, please! I suppose
none of you have seen the papers.”

Topham read:

  “It is officially announced that the President has decided to send
  the entire Atlantic fleet on a cruise to the Pacific coast. Sixteen
  battle ships will leave Hampton Roads in a few weeks and will steam
  southward around Cape Horn to San Francisco. They will probably make
  an extended stop at Rio Janeiro and other parts in Brazil. It is hoped
  and believed that the present rebellion in southern Brazil will be
  at an end by the time the fleet reaches there. Three vessels of the
  present south Atlantic squadron will cruise along the coast of south
  Brazil until the fleet arrives, when they will come northward if all
  is quiet in South America. Then the battleship squadron will go on to
  San Francisco and perhaps across the Pacific to Japan.”

There was silence for a moment as Topham ceased. Then the President
turned to Rutile. “Well, Mr. Rutile,” he smiled. “Will that serve?”

“Serve? It will knock the rebellion endways, quiet Japan, and smash the
Kaiser’s plot. And all without firing a shot. Oh! By _Jove_!” Rutile
paused; his feelings were too deep for words.

“Glad you approve,” smiled the President. “I understand that Germany’s
plans depend wholly on the preliminary success of the Brazilian
rebellion. If the dispatch of the fleet crushes the rebellion, as
I feel assured it will, it ends the whole conspiracy. Further, Mr.
Topham, I cabled your report on the San Francisco riot to the Japanese
Government last night. A reply has just come stating that the Japanese
ambassador here will be recalled and another sent in his place. The
inference is that they consider that he was behind the Countess del
Ouro Preto in her plot, and wish to disavow it. I don’t believe he
was, but its about the only thing Japan could do to save her face.
Meanwhile, until the new ambassador arrives all claims against the
United States will be dropped. This, of course, is confidential. I may
add, though--you will see the news in the afternoon papers--that the
governor and the leaders of the California legislature are going to be
more conciliatory, and avoid giving needless offense to Japan. Also the
mayor of San Francisco has promised to prevent any more anti-Japanese
riots. So I think everything is about straightened out.”

Lillian had been listening with wide-open eyes. For a wonder she had
held her tongue. But now she burst out.

“Goody! Goody!” she cried. “Oh! Mr. President, you’re just splendid. I
can tell you so if these men can’t. I’m going to cast my first vote for
you when we get women’s suffrage, even if it isn’t for fifty years!”

The President smiled. “Thank you!” he cried. “I’m sure you won’t
forget.” “Now, gentlemen,” he turned back to the two men. “I’m not
going to thank you for what you have done. You have done your duty,
neither more nor less. For the same reason I’m not going to reward you.
But I am going to tell you that I am delighted to know of two--no,
three--people who are clever and as capable and as courageous as
yourselves. And I’ll add that I am going to use you all to the
extent of your abilities--not as a reward but simply because you are
too capable not to be used. I guess we can find a post as minister
somewhere for you, Mr. Rutile. Please consult with the Secretary of
State about it. Now, Mr. Topham--”

But Miss Byrd interrupted. “Place aux dames, Mr. President,” she cried.
“What do I get?”

“What do you want, Miss Byrd?”

“I want three months leave for Mr. Rutile. You see he wants to get
married and he’s too bashful to tell you.”

The President’s eyes twinkled. “Oh! Ho! So that’s it, is it, Mr.
Rutile?” he asked.

Rutile blushed. “Yes! That’s it, Mr. President,” he admitted.

“Journalism will lose an ornament, but diplomacy will gain one. Mr.
Rutile shall have his vacation by all means, Miss Byrd.” “Now, Mr.
Topham, I have some news for you. It--or rather she--is waiting in the
next room. The Countess del Ouro Preto came to see me this morning. She
had read the news about the fleet in the papers and knew the game was
up. She came to confess, and to tell me a secret or two about herself.
Ahem! You have my permission to go, Mr. Topham! Through the right door
yonder. Yes! That’s it! Good-morning, Mr. Topham.”