She bent over a card. "Candlelight, best service for two, white wine,
celebration atmosphere," she wrote and put it into the dining table
selector. Somewhere an orchestra started playing Debussy.

"John," she called. "Almost ready."

A card shot back at her from the mirror as she passed. "Your nose is
shiny," it read. She powdered quickly, taming wisps of hair as an
afterthought.

"Any further comments?" she wanted to know, and held out her hand. A
second card appeared. "I can't whistle."

Her laughter brimmed over, laced in delight. "John, dinner's ready."

She called into three rooms, empty rooms. Crossing to the terrace, she
opened a door on the night. Snowflakes rode in on an icy draft.

"Well?"

"John! What are you doing out there? I can't even see you."

"That seems to be one of your habits recently."

She drew him inside, and leaned against the door, closing. "Is it going
to be like that tonight?"

"Maybe." His face was steeped in cold.

"Please. Not the day before you go."

The white crystals on his hair melted into drops, and a sudden warmth
strained all harshness from his voice. "No, you're right, Mary. Not the
day before I go."

Pushing him toward the fire, Mary took his cloak. "Didn't you notice?"

"What?"

"The table, silly. It's 'Happy Homecoming' tonight!"

"Leavestaking, you mean."

"No, homecoming. It's not December. It's August. You've just opened
the front door and said, 'Mary, I'm home!' And all the time in between
hasn't been. It never will be."

He smiled for the first time.

"Now that's better."

The woman handed John Hastings a goblet, plump with yellow liquid. "To
August, dear," she said, and raised her glass. "To the moment your foot
touches Earth again. And to the wine ... warm and golden, like our life
together."

"Let's eat," he said. "Let's not ask questions." He faltered in a lack
of direction.

"Wait a minute."

"For what?"

"For the questions you can't ask." The gaiety was gone. It was real
now. "I think it's time we swept out the corners."

John nodded, his face slack.

"You've been strange lately."

"Oh that!" he shrugged. "Let's say it's the getting ready ... the heart
plunge just before you jump into space."

"No." It was definite. "It's more than that. You've been a rocket man
all your life. You don't get nervous any more."

His fingers twisted the glass. Something else twisted his voice. "There
are things in it that might make a man nervous, Mary. Black winds.
Burning worlds. Holes in space waiting for him. You think it might be
that, Mary?"

"No."

"But this is Alpha Centauri. This is faster-than-light." He bowed.
"This is when baby-God Hastings tests his brain child ... when the
electron lightscope goes to bat. You think it might be that, Mary?"

"Don't make nasty fun."