V.

Uncle Jabez Spins A Yarn. (continued)


You know where Goody Hallett lives, Goodman Rich? It is a lonely spot.
After spending an hour last evening with your beloved pastor, Mr.
Webb, I resumed my journey to Truro just as the shades of evening were
gathering, expecting to reach Mr. Avery’s in time for his usually late
supper. Before I had gone very far, my horse showed a slight lameness
and I was, perforce, obliged to travel at a slow pace. Night comes on
rapidly at this season and it was very dark when I reached the confines
of Billingsgate. I had long since left the thickly populated district
behind and I guided my horse carefully over the dunes as I was not
sure of the way, not having been accustomed to traveling by night in
that region of the Cape. An occasional star gleamed fitfully through
the cloud rifts, but there was no other light to be seen on either
hand. The booming of the ocean to my right told me that my direction
was northerly and I felt sure I had not lost my way. Suddenly I heard
voices and I stopped my horse. Peering through the inky darkness I
discerned a faint glimmer about fifty yards from me, as I judged.
I wondered what the light meant as I was certain the locality was
uninhabited. Hitching my horse to a tree, I cautiously approached the
light, the voices becoming more distinct as I advanced. Then I realized
that I was in the vicinity of Goody Hallett’s hut, but as I knew she
lived alone I was at a loss to account for the altercation which was in
progress.

About ten yards from the hut I stopped and listened. Goody Hallett
had a guest, and, judging by his expressions, one who was not of this
neighborhood. I could now plainly hear all that was said and strange
indeed was the impression conveyed to my mind by the fierce tones in
which the man spoke to the old woman.

“It is no use trying to fool me longer, Mother Hallett. I have been to
many ports since that dread night, but I mind me well where the booty
was secreted. You say you found but little; that it must have been
found by these swinish lubbers who dwell on this God-forsaken sandbank.
They thought they buried me with the rest of the gallant rovers when
the old ship went to pieces under us, but they little knew who was the
fellow-survivor of your relative, Indian Tom! We disappeared, they
said. Truly, Mother Hallett, we did disappear, but not on that morning,
as they thought. Indian Tom knew how to hide and to provide food, so
we stayed for days unknown to the wreckers who were unable to think of
anything but Sam Bellamy’s gold! They didn’t find it, the swine! Indian
Tom knew his orders better than that. Give me some more rum, old hag!”

Through the small window of the hut I saw the tall figure of Goody
Hallett pass between me and the light. She soon returned, evidently
with the liquor demanded by the man, as the clinking of glasses told me
that he was helping himself to the generous fluid.

Then I heard Goody Hallett say in her shrill voice: “I tell you,
pirate, that I found only a small part of the gold and silver in the
place where Indian Tom told me he had hidden the treasure. He died the
night after he came home to his people. I was the last person that saw
him alive. In his last moments he confided the secret to me.”

“And you started post-haste to this place, I’ll be bound!” exclaimed
the man fiercely. “Yes, old witch, I heard the story from the lips of
your nephew when I sought traces of Indian Tom last month. It was also
rumored that Tom died of poison!”

The old woman laughed mockingly. “The fools! Why should anybody poison
poor Tom when we were all glad to see him home again after his years of
voyaging with you?”

“Perhaps somebody had an interest in poisoning Tom? I should better
know why if I knew whether he told you about the treasure before or
after he fell sick?”

“Dog of a pirate! Dare you insinuate that I had aught to do with the
death of my uncle’s son?” Her voice was almost a shriek as she flung
this at him.

“Ho, softly, Mother Hallett, softly, I say!” The man was somewhat
disconcerted by the old woman’s rage. “Come,” he continued, “let’s
clink our glasses once again to pledge our friendship. We are the only
ones who now can tell where the treasure was hidden and together we
must find it. Let me sing you one of my old sea songs. Ah, that’s a
better spirit, Mother Hallett! Now I’ll give you a stave.”

In a roaring tone he started to sing. It was a wild song of the rover’s
life and the singer flung his whole soul into the performance. I can
remember the first stanza, which he repeated several times as if it
were a kind of refrain. This was how it went:

  “Sing ho, my lads, for Bellamy bold,
    For he is king of the main!
  He’s filled the hold with yellow gold
    From the galleons of Spain.
  Then bear away by the light of the moon,
    We carry a rover’s freight--
  Sing ho, for the gleam of a yellow doubloon
    And the chink of pieces of eight!
        Sing ho, etc.”

There were several verses in the same spirit telling of fair-haired and
blue-eyed maids in Bristol town awaiting the homecoming of the rover
who, however, was well content to lavish his wealth on the darker-hued
sirens whose flashing eyes welcomed him to the bowers of love in the
sunny isles of the southern seas.

The effect of the song was to restore good feeling between the pair
and the subsequent discussion was free from acrimony. They talked about
the treasure. Goody Hallett insisted that the sea must have encroached
on the spot where it was hidden, and scattered it. The shifting sands
then covered it. She admitted having recovered some of it and expressed
her willingness to share with her guest. On his part, he urged that
now was the time to settle; he must be leaving immediately as his
ship awaited him in Bostoin and he would be absent for a long time.
Goody Hallett agreed to this. There was some little haggling over the
division of the spoil, but the man appeared convinced that the old
woman was telling the truth and accepted what she gave him. He promised
to revisit the place at the end of the voyage and resume the search for
the lost treasure. Then the light was put out and all was silence.

Filled with astonishment at this strange occurrence, I mounted my horse
and continued my journey to Mr. Avery’s. ’Twas very late when I arrived
but I found my friend sitting up. The saintly minister was much alarmed
and astonished when I told him of my adventure. He had heard some talk
about this strange man but put it down to idle gossip.

Together we rode to Goody Hallett’s hut next day, but there was no
trace of the stranger, and the old woman vehemently denied that any
such person had ever been there!