I.

"_IN THIS NEW LAND OF OURS._"

There was something in the glorious lonesomeness of Bush-life that
accorded most completely with Archie's notions of true happiness and
independence.  His life now, and the lives of all the three, would be
simply what they chose to make them.  To use the figurative language
of the New Testament, they had "taken hold of the plough," and they
certainly had no intention of "looking back."

Archie felt (this too is figurative) as the mariner may be supposed
to feel just leaving his native shore to sail away over the broad,
the boundless ocean to far-off lands.  His hand is on the tiller; the
shore is receding; his eye is aloft, where the sails are bellying out
before the wind.  There is hardly a sound, save the creaking of the
blocks, or rattle of the rudder chains, the joyous ripple of the
water, and the screaming of the sea-birds, that seem, to sing their
farewells.  Away ahead is the blue horizon and the heaving sea, but
he has faith in his good barque, and faith in his own skill and
judgment, and for the time being he is a Viking; he is "monarch of
all he surveys."

"Monarch of all he surveys?"  Yes; these words are borrowed from the
poem on Robinson Crusoe, you remember; that stirring story that so
appeals to the heart of every genuine boy.

There was something of the Robinson Crusoe element in Archie's
present mode of living, for he and his friends had to rough it in the
same delightfully primitive fashion.  They had to know and to
practise a little of almost every trade under the sun; and while life
to the boy--he was really little more--was very real and very
earnest, it felt all the time like playing at being a man.

But how am I to account for the happiness--nay, even joyfulness--that
appeared to be infused in the young man's very blood and soul?  Nay,
not appeared to be only, but that actually was--a joyfulness whose
effects could at times be actually felt in his very frame and muscle
like a proud thrill, that made his steps and tread elastic, and
caused him to gaily sing to himself as he went about at his work.
May I try to explain this by a little homely experiment, which you
yourself may also perform?  See, here then I have a small disc of
zinc, no larger than a coat button, and I have also a shilling-piece.
I place the former on my tongue, and the latter between my lower lip
and gum, and lo! the moment I permit the two metallic edges to touch
I feel a tingling thrill, and if my eyes be shut I perceive a flash
as well.  It is electricity pissing through the bodily medium--my
tongue.  The one coin becomes _en rapport_, so to speak, with the
other.  So in like manner was Archie's soul within him _en rapport_
with all the light, the life, the love he saw around him, his body
being but the wholesome, healthy, solid medium.

_En rapport_ with the light.  Why, by day this was everywhere--in the
sky during its mid-day blue brightness; in the clouds so gorgeously
painted that lay over the hills at early morning, or over the wooded
horizon near eventide.  _En rapport_ with the light dancing and
shimmering in the pool down yonder; playing among the wild flowers
that grew everywhere in wanton luxuriance; flickering through the
tree-tops, despite the trailing creepers; gleaming through the tender
greens of fern fronds in cool places; sporting with the strange
fantastic, but brightly-coloured orchids; turning greys to white, and
browns to bronze; warming, wooing, beautifying all things--the light,
the lovely light.  _En rapport_ with the life.  Ay, there it was.
Where was it not?  In the air, where myriads of insects dance and
buzz and sing and poise hawk-like above flowers, as if inhaling their
sweetness, or dart hither and thither in their zigzag course, and
almost with the speed of lightning; where monster beetles go droning
lazily round, as if uncertain where to alight; where moths, like
painted fans, hover in the sunshine, or fold their wings and go to
sleep on flower-tops.  In the forests, where birds, like animated
blossoms, living chips of dazzling colours, hop from boughs, climb
stems, run along silvery bark on trees, hopping, jumping, tapping,
talking, chattering, screaming, with bills that move and throats that
heave even when their voices cannot be heard in the feathered babel.
Life on the ground, where thousands of busy beetles creep, or play
hide-and-seek among the stems of tall grass, and where ants
innumerable go in search of what they somehow never seem to find.
Life on the water slowly sailing round, or in and out among the
reeds, in the form of bonnie velvet ducks and pretty spangled teal.
Life in the water, where shoals of fish dart hither and thither, or
rest for a moment in shallows to bask in the sun, their bodies all
a-quiver with enjoyment.  Life in the sky itself, high up.  Behold
that splendid flock of wonga-wonga pigeons, with bronzen wings, that
seem to shake the sunshine off them in showers of silver and gold,
or, lower down, that mob of snowy-breasted cockatoos, going somewhere
to do something, no doubt, and making a dreadful din about it, but
quite a sight, if only from the glints of lily and rose that appear
in the white of their outstretched wings and tails.  Life everywhere.

_En rapport_ with all the love around him.  Yes, for it is spring
here, though the autumn tints are on the trees in groves and woods at
Burley.  Deep down in the forest yonder, if you could penetrate
without your clothes being torn from your back, you might listen to
the soft murmur of the doves that stand by their nests in the green
gloom of fig trees; you would linger long to note the love passages
taking place among the cosy wee, bright, and bonnie parrakeets; you
would observe the hawk flying silently, sullenly, home to his castle
in the inaccessible heights of the gum trees, but you would go
quickly past the forest dens of lively cockatoos.  For everywhere it
is spring with birds and beasts.  They have dressed in their gayest;
they have assumed their fondest notes and cries; they live and
breathe and buzz in an atmosphere of happiness and love.

Well, it was spring with Nature, and it was spring in Archie's heart.

Work was a pleasure to him.

That last sentence really deserves a line to itself.  Without the
ghost of an intention to moralise, I must be permitted to say, that
the youth who finds an undoubted pleasure in working is sure to get
on in Australia.  There is that in the clear, pure, dry air of the
back Bush which renders inactivity an impossibility to anyone except
ne'er-do-wells and born idiots.  This is putting it strongly, but it
is also putting it truthfully.

Archie felt he had done with Sydney, for a time at all events, when
he left.  He was not sorry to shake the dust of the city from his
half-wellingtons as he embarked on the _Canny Scotia_, bound for
Brisbane.

If the Winslows had not been among the passengers he certainly would
have given vent to a sigh or two.

All for the sake of sweet little Etheldene?  Yes, for her sake.  Was
she not going to be Rupert's wife, and his own second sister?  Oh, he
had it all nicely arranged, all cut and dry, I can assure you!

Here is a funny thing, but it is also a fact.  The very day that the
_Canny Scotia_ was to sail, Archie took Harry with him, and the two
started through the city, and bore up for the shop of Mr. Glorie.

They entered.  It was like entering a gloomy vault.  Nothing was
altered.  There stood the rows on rows of dusty bottles, with their
dingy gilt labels; the dusty mahogany drawers; the morsel of
railinged desk with its curtain of dirty red; there were the murky
windows with their bottles of crusted yellows and reds; and up there
the identical spider still working away at his dismal web, still
living in hopes apparently of some day being able to catch a fly.

The melancholy-looking new apprentice, who had doubtless paid the new
premium, a long lantern-jawed lad with great eyes in hollow sockets,
and a blue-grey face, stood looking at the pair of them.

"Where is your master, Mr.----?"

"Mr. Myers, sir.  Myers is my name."

"Where is Mr. Glorie, Mr. Myers?"

"D' ye wish to see 'm, sir?"

"Don't it seem like it?" cried Harry, who for the life of him "could
not help putting his oar in."

"Master's at the back, among--the soap."

He droned out the last words in such a lugubrious tone that Archie
felt sorry for him.

Just then, thinking perhaps he scented a customer, Mr. Glorie himself
entered, all apron from the jaws to the knees.

"Ah!  Mr. Glorie," cried Archie.  "I really couldn't leave Sydney
without saying ta-ta, and expressing iny sorrow for breaking----"

"Your indenture, young sir?"

"No; I'm glad I broke that.  I mean the oil-jar.  Here is a sovereign
towards it, and I hope there's no bad feeling."

"Oh, no, not in the least, and thank you, sir, kindly!"

"Well, good-bye.  Good-bye, Mr. Myers.  If ever I return from the
Bush I'll come back and see you."

And away they went, and away went Archie's feeling; of gloom as soon
as he got to the sunny side of the street.

"I say," said Harry, "that's a lively coon behind the counter.  Looks
to me like a love-sick bandicoot, or a consumptive kangaroo.  But
don't you know there is such a thing as being too honest?  Now that
old death-and-glory chap robbed you, and had it been me, and I'd
called again, it would have been to kick him.  But you're still the
old Johnnie."

* * * * * *

Now if I were writing all this tale from imagination, instead of
sketching the life and struggles of a real live laddie, I should have
ascended into the realms of romance, and made a kind of hero of him
thus: he should have gone straight away to the bank when he received
that Â£50 from his uncle, and sent it back, and then gone off to the
bush with twopence halfpenny in his pocket, engaged himself to a
squatter as under-man, and worked his way right up to the pinnacle of
fortune.

But Archie had not done that; and between you and me and the
binnacle, not to let it go any further, I think he did an extremely
sensible thing in sticking to the money.

Oh, but plenty of young men who do not have uncles to send them
fifty-pound notes to help them over their first failures, do very
well without such assistance!  So let no intending emigrant be
disheartened.

Again, as to Winslow's wild way of borrowing said Â£50, and changing
it into Â£300, that was another "fluke," and a sort of thing that
might never happen again in a hundred years.

Pride did come in again, however, with a jump--with a gay
Northumbrian bound--when Bob and Harry seriously proposed that
Johnnie, as the latter still called him, should put his money in the
pool, and share and share alike with them.

"No, no, no," said the young Squire, "don't rile me; that would be so
obviously unfair to you, that it would be unfair to myself."

When asked to explain this seeming paradox, he added:

"Because it would rob me of my feeling of independence."

So the matter ended.

But through the long-headed kindness and business tact of Winslow,
all three succeeded in getting farms that adjoined, though Archie's
was but a patch compared to the united great farms of his chums, that
stretched to a goodly two thousand acres and more, with land beyond
to take up as pasture.

But then there was stock to buy, and tools, and all kinds of things,
to say nothing of men's and boys' wages to be paid, and arms and
ammunition to help to fill the larder.

At this time the railway did not go sweeping away so far west as it
does now, the colony being very much younger, and considerably
rougher; and the farms lay on the edge of the Darling Downs.

This was a great advantage, as it gave them the run of the markets
without having to pay nearly as much in transit and freight as the
stock was worth.

They had another advantage in their selection--thanks once more to
Winslow--they had Bush still farther to the west of them.  Not
adjacent, to be sure, but near enough to make a shift of stock to
grass lands, that could be had for an old song, as the saying is.

The selection was procured under better conditions than I believe it
is to be had to-day; for the rent was only about ninepence an acre,
and that for twenty years, the whole payable at any time in order to
obtain complete possession.*


* At present agricultural farms may be selected of not more than 1280
acres, and the rent is fixed by the Land Board, not being less than
threepence per acre per annum.  A license is issued to the selector,
who must, within five years, fence in the land or make permanent
improvements of a value equal to the cost of the fence, and must also
live on the selection.  If at the end of that time he can prove that
he has performed the above conditions, he will be entitled to a
transferable lease for fifty years.  The rent for the first ten years
will be the amount as at first fixed, and the rent for every
subsequent period of five years will be determined by the Land Board,
but the greatest increase that can be made at any re-assessment is
fifty per cent.


It must not be imagined that this new home of theirs was a land
flowing with milk and honey, or that they had nothing earthly to do
but till the ground, sow seed, and live happy ever after.  Indeed the
work to be performed was all earthly, and the milk and honey had all
to come.

A deal of the very best land in Australia is covered with woods and
forests, and clearing has to be done.

Bob wished his busy little body of a wife to stay behind in Brisbane
till he had some kind of a decent crib, as he called it, ready to
invite her to.

But Sarah said, "No!  Where you go I go.  Your crib shall be my crib,
Bob, and I shall bake the damper."  This was not very poetical
language, but there was a good deal of sound sense about Sarah, even
if there was but little poetry.

Well, it did seem at first a disheartening kind of wilderness they
had come to, but the site for the homesteads had been previously
selected, and after a night's rest in their rude tents and waggons,
work was commenced.  Right joyfully too.

  "Down with, them!  Down
  With the lords of the forests."


This was the song of our pioneers.  Men shouted and talked, and
laughed and joked, saws rasped and axes rang, and all the while duty
went merrily on.  Birds and beasts, never disturbed before in the
solitude of their homes, except by wandering blacks, crowded
round--only keeping a safe distance away--and wondered whatever the
matter could be.  The musical magpies, or laughing jackasses, said
they would soon settle the business; they would frighten those new
chums out of their wits, and out of the woods.  So they started to do
it.  They laughed in such loud, discordant, daft tones that at times
Archie was obliged to put his fingers in his ears, and guns had to be
fired to stop the row.  So they were not successful.  The cockatoos
tried the same game; they cackled and skraighed like a million mad
hens, and rustled and ruffled their plumage, and flapped their wings
and flew, but all to no purpose--the work went on.

The beautiful lorries, parrakeets, and budgerigars took little notice
of the intruders, but went farther away, deserting half-built nests
to build new ones.  The bonnie little long-tailed opossum peeped down
from his perch on the gums, looking exceedingly wise, and told his
wife that not in all his experience had there been such goings on in
the forest lands, and that something was sure to follow it; his wife
might mark his words for that.  The wongawongas grumbled dreadfully;
but great hawks flew high in the air, swooping round and round
against the sun, as they have a habit of doing, and now and then gave
vent to a shrill cry which was more of exultation than anything else.
"There will be dead bones to pick before long."  That is what the
hawks thought.  Snakes now and then got angrily up, puffed and blew a
bit, but immediately decamped into the denser cover.

The dingoes kept their minds to themselves until night fell, and the
stars came out; the constellation called the Southern Cross spangled
the heaven's dark-blue, then the dingoes lifted up their voices and
wept; and, oh, such weeping!  Whoso has never heard a concert of
Australian wild dogs can have no conception of the noise these
animals are capable of.  Whoso has once heard it, and gone to sleep
towards the end of it, will never afterwards complain of the harmless
musical reunions of our London cats.

But sleep is often impossible.  You have got just to lie in bed and
wonder what in the name of mystery they do it for.  They seem to
quarrel over the key-note, and lose it, and try for it, and get it
again, and again go off into a chorus that would "ding doon"
Tantallan Castle.  And when you do doze off at last, as likely as
not, you will dream of howling winds and hungry wolves till it is
grey daylight in the morning.