Boys will be boys.  Yes, we all know that.  But there comes a time in
the life of every right-thinking lad when another truth strikes home
to him, that boys will be men.

I rather think that the sooner a boy becomes cognisant of this fact
the better.  Life is not all a dream; it must sooner or later become
a stern reality, life is not all pleasant parade and show, like a
field-day at Aldershot; no, for sooner or later pomp and panoply have
to be exchanged for camp-life and action, and bright uniforms are
either rolled in blood and dust, or come triumphant, though
tarnished, from the field of glory.  Life is not all plain sailing
over sunlit seas, for by-and-by the clouds bank up, storms come on,
and the good ship has to do battle with wind and wave.

But who would have it otherwise?  No one would who possesses the
slightest ray of honest ambition, or a single spark of that pride of
self which we need not blush to own.

One day, about the beginning of autumn, Rupert and Archie, and their
sister Elsie, were in the room in the tower.  They sat together in a
turret chamber, Elsie gazing dreamily from the window at the
beautiful scenery spread out beneath.  The woods and wilds, the
rolling hills, the silvery stream, the half-ripe grain moving in the
wind, as waves at sea move, and the silvery sunshine over al.  She
was in a kind of a daydream, her fingers listlessly touching a chord
on the harp now and then.  A pretty picture she looked, too, with her
bonnie brown hair, and her bonnie blue eyes, and thorough English
face, thorough English beauty.  Perhaps Archie had been thinking
something of this sort as he sat there looking at her, while Rupert
half-lay in the rocking-chair, which his brother had made for him,
engrossed as usual in a book.

Whether Archie did think thus or not, certain it is that presently he
drew his chair close to his sister's, and laying one arm fondly on
her shoulder.

"What is sissie looking at?" he asked.

"Oh, Archie," she replied, "I don't think I've been looking at
anything; but I've been seeing everything and wishing!"

"Wishing, Elsie?  Well, you don't look merry.  What were you wishing?"

"I was wishing the old days were back again, when--when father was
rich; before the awful fire came, and the plague, and everything.  It
has made us all old, I think.  Wouldn't you like father was rich
again?"

"I am not certain; but wishes are not horses, you know."

"No," said Elsie; "only if it could even be always like this, and if
you and Rupert and I could be always as we are now.  I think that,
poor though we are, everything just now is so pretty and so pleasant.
But you are going away to the university, and the place won't be the
same.  I shall get older faster than ever then."

"Well, Elsie," said Archie, laughing, "I am so old that I am going to
make my will."

Rupert put down his book with a quiet smile.

"What are you going to leave me, old man?  Scallowa?"

"No, Rupert, you're too long in the legs for Scallowa, you have no
idea what a bodkin of a boy you are growing.  Scallowa I will and
bequeath to my pretty sister here, and I'll buy her a side-saddle,
and two pennyworth of carrot seed.  Elsie will also have Bounder, and
you, Rupert, shall have Fuss."

"Anything else for me?"

"Don't be greedy.  But I'll tell you.  You shall have my tool-house,
and all my tools, and my gun besides.  Well, this room is to be
sister's own, and she shall also have my fishing-rod, and the book of
flies that poor Bob Cooper made for me.  Oh, don't despise them, they
are all wonders!"

"Well really, Archie," said Elsie, "you talk as earnestly as if you
actually were going to die."

"Who said I was going to die?  No, I don't mean to die till I've done
much more mischief."

"Hush!  Archie."

"Well, I'm hushed."

"Why do you want to make your will?"

"Oh, it isn't wanting to make my will!  I am--I've done it.  And the
'why' is this, I'm going away."

"To Oxford?"

"No, Elsie, not to Oxford.  I've got quite enough Latin and Greek out
of Walton to last me all my life.  I couldn't be a doctor; besides
father is hardly rich enough to make me one at present.  I couldn't
be a doctor, and I'm not good enough to be a parson."

"Archie, how you talk."

There were tears in Elsie's eyes now.

"I can't help it.  I'm going away to enter life in a new land.  Uncle
Ramsay has told me all about Australia.  He says the old country is
used up, and fortunes can be made in a few years on the other side of
the globe."

There was silence in the turret for long minutes; the whispering of
the wind in the elm trees beneath could be heard, the murmuring of
the river, and far away in the woods the cawing of rooks.

"Don't you cry, Elsie," said Archie.  "I've been thinking about all
this for some time, and my mind is made up.  I'm going, Elsie, and I
know it is for the best.  You don't imagine for a single moment, do
you, that I'll forget the dear old times, and you all?  No, no, no.
I'll think about you every night, and all day long, and I'll come
back rich.  You don't think that I won't make my fortune, do you?
Because I mean to, and will.  So there.  Don't cry, Elsie."

"I'm not going to cry, Archie," said Rupert.

"Right, Rupert, you're a brick, as Branson says."

"I'm not old enough," continued Rupert, "to give you my blessing,
though I suppose Kate would give you hers; but----we'll all pray for
you."

"Well," said Archie thoughtfully, "that will help some."

"Why, you silly boy, it will help a lot."

"I wish I were as good as you, Rupert.  But I'm just going to try
hard to do my best, and I feel certain I'll be all right."

"You know, Roup, how well I can play cricket, and how I often easily
bowl father out.  Well, that is because I've just tried my very
hardest to become a good player; and I'm going to try my very hardest
again in another way.  Oh, I shall win!  I'm cocksure I shall.  Come,
Elsie, dry your eyes.  Here's my handkie.  Don't be a little old
wife."

"You won't get killed, or anything, Archie?"

"No; I won't get killed, or eaten either."

"They do tell me," said Elsie--"that is, old Kate told me--that the
streets in Australia are all paved with gold, and that the roofs of
the houses are all solid silver."

"Well, I don't think she is quite right," said Archie, laughing.
"Anyhow, uncle says there is a fortune to be made, and I'm going to
make it.  That's all."