Archie Broadbent might have been said to have two kinds of home
education; one was thoroughly scholastic, the other very practical
indeed.  The Squire was one in a hundred perhaps.  He was devoted to
his farm, and busied himself in the field, manually as well as
orally.  I mean to say that he was of such an active disposition
that, while superintending and giving advice and orders, he put his
hand to the wheel himself.  So did Mr. Walton, and whether it was
harvest-time or haymaking, you would have found Squire Broadbent, the
tutor, and Archie hard at it, and even little Elsie doing a little.

I would not like to say that the Squire was a radical, but he
certainly was no believer in the benefits of too much class
distinction.  He thought Burns was right when he said--

  "A man's a man for a' that."


Was he any the less liked or less respected by his servants, because
he and his boy tossed hay in the same field with them?  I do not
think so, and I know that the work always went more merrily on when
they were there; and that laughing and even singing could be heard
all day long.  Moreover, there was less beer drank, and more tea.
The Squire supplied both liberally, and any man might have which he
chose.  Consequently there was less, far less, tired-headedness and
languor in the evening.  Why, it was nothing uncommon for the lads
and lasses of Burley Old Farm to meet together on the lawn, after a
hard day's toil, and dance for hours to the merry notes of Branson's
fiddle.

We have heard of model farms; this Squire's was one; but the
servants, wonderful to say, were contented.  There was never such a
thing as grumbling heard from one year's end to the other.

Christmas too was always kept in the good, grand old style.  Even a
yule log, drawn from the wood, was considered a property of the
performances; and as for good cheer, why there was "lashins" of it,
as an Irishman would say, and fun "galore," to borrow a word from
beyond the Border.

Mr. Walton was a scholarly person, though you might not have thought
so, had you seen him mowing turnips with his coat off.  He, however,
taught nothing to Archie or Rupert that might not have some practical
bearing on his after life.  Such studies as mathematics and algebra
were dull, in a manner of speaking; Latin was taught because no one
can understand English without it; French and German
conversationally; geography not by rote, but thoroughly; and
everything else was either very practical and useful, or very
pleasant.

Music Archie loved, but did not care to play; his father did not
force him; but poor Rupert played the zither.  He loved it, and took
to it naturally.

Rupert got stronger as he grew older, and when Archie was fourteen
and he thirteen, the physician gave good hopes; and he was even able
to walk by himself a little.  But to some extent he would be "Poor
Rupert" as long as he lived.

He read and thought far more than Archie, and--let me whisper it--he
prayed more fervently.

"Oh, Roup," Archie would say, "I should like to be as good as you!
Somehow, I don't feel to need to pray so much, and to have the Lord
Jesus so close to me."

It was a strange conceit this, but Rupert's answer was a good one.

"Yes, Archie, I need comfort more; but mind you, brother, the day may
come when you'll want comfort of this kind too."