II.

_A CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK._

It was no part of Squire Broadbent's plan to turn away old and
faithful servants.  He had to weed them though, and this meant
thinning out to such an extent that not over many were left.

The young and healthy creatures of inutility had to shift; but the
very old, the decrepit--those who had become stiff and grey in his
uncle's service--were pensioned off.  They were to stay for the rest
of their lives in the rural village adown the glen--bask in the sun
in summer, sit by the fire of a winter, and talk of the times when "t
'old Squire was aboot."

The servants settled with, and fresh ones with suitable "go" in them
established in their place, the live stock came in for reformation.

"St. Mary! what a medley!" exclaimed the Squire, as he walked through
the byres and stables, and past the styes.  "Everything bred anyhow.
No method in my uncle's madness.  No rules followed, no type.  Why
the quickest plan will be to put them all to the hammer."

This was cutting the Gordian-knot with a vengeance, but it was
perhaps best in the long run.

Next came renovation of the farm-steading itself; pulling down and
building, enlarging, and what not, and while this was going on, the
land itself was not being forgotten.  Fences were levelled and carted
away, and newer and airier ones put up, and for the most part three
and sometimes even five fields were opened into one.  There were
woods also to be seen to.  The new Squire liked woods, but the trees
in some of these were positively poisoning each other.  Here was a
larch-wood, for instance--those logs with the long, grey lichens on
them are part of some of the trees.  So closely do the larches grow
together, so white with moss, so stunted and old-looking, that it
would have made a merry-andrew melancholy to walk among them.  What
good were they?  Down they must come, and down they had come; and
after the ground had been stirred up a bit, and left for a summer to
let the sunshine and air into it, all the hill was replanted with
young, green, smiling pines, larches, and spruces, and that was
assuredly an improvement.  In a few years the trees were well
advanced; grass and primroses grew where the moss had crept about,
and the wood in spring was alive with the song of birds.

The mansion-house had been left intact.  Nothing could have added
much to the beauty of that.  It stood high up on a knoll, with rising
park-like fields behind, and at some considerable distance the blue
slate roofs of the farm-steading peeping up through the greenery of
the trees.  A solid yellow-grey house, with sturdy porch before the
hall-door, and sturdy mullioned windows, one wing ivy-clad, a broad
sweep of gravel in front, and beyond that, lawns and terraces, and
flower and rose-gardens.  And the whole overlooked a river or stream,
that went winding away clear and silvery till it lost itself in
wooded glens.

The scenery was really beautiful all round, and in some parts even
wild; while the distant views of the Cheviot Hills lent a charm to
everything.

There was something else held sacred by the Squire as well as the
habitable mansion, and that was Burley Old Castle.  Undoubtedly a
fortress of considerable strength it had been in bygone days, when
the wild Scots used to come raiding here, but there was no name for
it now save that of a "ruin."  The great north tower still stood firm
and bold, and three walls of the lordly hall, its floor green with
long, rank grass; the walls themselves partly covered with ivy, with
broom growing on the top, which was broad enough for the half-wild
goats to scamper along.

There was also the donjon keep, and the remains of a _fosse_; but all
the rest of this feudal castle had been unceremoniously carted away,
to erect cowsheds and pigstyes with it.

  "So sinks the pride of former days,
    When glory's thrill is o'er."


No, Squire Broadbent did not interfere with the castle; he left it to
the goats and to Archie, who took to it as a favourite resort from
the time he could crawl.

But these--all these--new-fangled notions the neighbouring squires
and farmers bold could easily have forgiven, had Broadbent not
carried his craze for machinery to the very verge of folly.  So they
thought.  Such things might be all very well in America, but they
were not called for here.  Extraordinary mills driven by steam, no
less wonderful-looking harrows, uncanny-like drags and drilling
machines, sowing and reaping machines that were fearfully and
wonderfully made, and ploughs that, like the mills, were worked by
steam.

Terrible inventions these; and even the men that were connected with
them had to be brought from the far South, and did not talk a homely,
wholesome _lingua_, nor live in a homely, wholesome way.

His neighbours confessed that his crops were heavier, and the cereals
and roots finer; but they said to each other knowingly, "What about
the expense of down-put?"  And as far as their own fields went, the
plough-boy still whistled to and from his work.

Then the new live stock, why, type was followed; type was everything
in the Squire's eye and opinion.  No matter what they were, horses,
cattle, pigs, sheep, and feather-stock, even the dogs and birds were
the best and purest of the sort to be had.

But for all the head-shaking there had been at first, things really
appeared to prosper with the Squire; his big, yellow-painted wagons,
with their fine Clydesdale horses, were as well known in the district
and town of B---- as the brewer's dray itself.  The "nags" were
capitally harnessed.  What with jet-black, shining leather,
brass-work that shone like burnished gold, and crimson-flashing
fringes, it was no wonder that the men who drove them were proud, and
that they were favourites at every house of call.  Even the bailiff
himself, on his spirited hunter, looked imposing with his whip in his
hand, and in his spotless cords.

Breakfast at Burley was a favourite meal, and a pretty early one, and
the capital habit of inviting friends thereto was kept up.  Mrs.
Broadbent's tea was something to taste and remember; while the cold
beef, or that early spring lamb on the sideboard, would have
converted the veriest vegetarian as soon as he clapped eyes on it.

On his spring lamb the Squire rather prided himself, and he liked his
due meed of praise for having reared it.  To be sure he got it;
though some of the straight-forward Northumbrians would occasionally
quizzingly enquire what it cost him to put on the table.

Squire Broadbent would not get out of temper whatever was said, and
really, to do the man justice, it must be allowed that there was a
glorious halo of self-reliance around his head; and altogether such
spirit, dash, and independence with all he said and did, that those
who breakfasted with him seemed to catch the infection.  Their farms
and they themselves appeared quite behind the times, when viewed in
comparison with Broadbent's and with Broadbent himself.

If ever a father was loved and admired by a son, the Squire was that
man, and Archie was that particular son.  His father was Archie's
_beau ideal_ indeed of all that was worth being, or saying, or
knowing, in this world; and Rupert's as well.

He really was his boys' hero, but behaved more to them as if he had
been just a big brother.  It was a great grief to both of them that
Rupert could not join in their games out on the lawn in summer--the
little cricket matches, the tennis tournaments, the jumping, and
romping, and racing.  The tutor was younger than the Squire by many
years, but he could not beat him in any manly game you could mention.

Yes, it was sad about Rupert, but with all the little lad's suffering
and weariness, he was such a sunny-faced chap.  He never complained,
and when sturdy, great, brown-faced Archie carried him out as if he
had been a baby, and laid him on the couch where he could witness the
games, he was delighted beyond description.

I'm quite sure that the Squire often and often kept on playing longer
than he would otherwise have done just to please the child, as he was
generally called.  As for Elsie, she did all her brother did, and a
good deal more besides, and yet no one could have called her a tom
girl.

As the Squire was Archie's hero, I suppose the boy could not help
taking after his hero to some extent; but it was not only surprising
but even amusing to notice how like to his "dad" in all his ways
Archie had at the age of ten become.  The same in walk, the same in
talk, the same in giving his opinion, and the same in bright,
determined looks.  Archie really was what his father's friends called
him, "a chip of the old block."

He was a kind of a lad, too, that grown-up men folks could not help
having a good, romping lark with.  Not a young farmer that ever came
to the place could have beaten Archie at a race; but when some of
them did get hold of him out on the lawn of an evening, then there
would be a bit of fun, and Archie was in it.

These burly Northumbrians would positively play a kind of pitch and
toss with him, standing in a square or triangle and throwing him hack
and fore as if he had been a cricket ball.  And there was one very
tall, wiry young fellow who treated Archie as if he had been a sort
of dumb-bell, and took any amount of exercise out of him; holding him
high aloft with one hand, swaying him round and round and up and
down, changing hands, and, in a word, going through as many motions
with the laughing boy as if he had been inanimate.