XIII.

_CHEST TO CHEST WITH SAVAGES--HOW IT ALL ENDED._

No one thought of sleeping again that night.  They went back for
their horses, and, as the moon had now risen, commenced the journey
in a bee line, as far as that was possible, towards Burley New Farm.

They travelled on all night, still under the guidance of Jacoby, who
needed no blazed trees to show in which direction to go.  But when
morning came rest became imperative, for the men were beginning to
nod in their saddles, and the horses too seemed to be falling asleep
on their feet, for several had stumbled and thrown their
half-senseless riders.  So camp was now formed and breakfast
discussed, and almost immediately all save a sentry went off into
sound and dreamless slumber, Diana lying close to Craig, whom she was
very fond of, with her head on his great shoulder and her fingers
firmly entwined in his beard.

It was hard upon the one poor fellow who had to act as sentry.  Do
what he might he could scarcely keep awake, and he was far too tired
to continue walking about.  He went and leant his body against a
tree, and in this position, what with the heat of the day, and the
drowsy hum of insects, with the monotonous song of the grasshopper,
again and again he felt himself merging into the land of dreams.
Then he would start and shake himself, and take a turn or two in the
sunshine, then go back to the tree and nod as before.

The day wore on, the sun got higher and higher, and about noon, just
when the sentry was thinking or rather dreaming of waking the
sleepers, there was a wild shout from a neighbouring thicket, a spear
flew past him and stuck in the tree.  Next moment there was a
terrible _mel√©e_--a hand-to-hand fight with savages that lasted for
long minutes, but finally resulted in victory for the squatters.

But, alas! it was a dearly-bought victory.  Three out of the twelve
were dead, and three more, including Gentleman Craig, grievously
wounded.

The rest followed up the blacks for some little way, and more than
one of them bit the dust.  Then they returned to help their fellows.

Craig's was a spear wound through the side, none the less dangerous
in that hardly a drop of blood was lost externally.

They drew the killed in under a tree, and having bound up the wounds
of the others, and partly carrying them or helping them along, they
resumed the march.

All that day they dragged themselves along, and it was far into the
early hours of morning ere they reached the boundaries of Burley New
Farm.

The moon was shining, though not very brightly, light fleecy clouds
were driving rapidly across the sky, so they could see the lights in
both the old house and in the lower windows of Archie's own dwelling.
They fired guns and coo-ee-ed, and presently Bob and Winslow rushed
out to bid them welcome.

Diana went bounding away to meet him.

"Oh, daddy, daddy!" she exclaimed, "what a time we've been having!
but mind, daddy, it wasn't all fun."

Bob could not speak for the life of him.  He just staggered in with
the child in his arms and handed her over to Sarah; but I leave the
reader to imagine the state of Sarah's feelings now.

Poor Craig was borne in and put to bed in Archie's guest room, and
there he lay for weeks.

Bob himself had gone to Brisbane to import a surgeon, regardless of
expense; but it was probably more owing to the tender nursing of
Elsie than anything else that Craig was able at length to crawl out
and breathe the balmy, flower-scented air in the verandah.

One afternoon, many weeks after this, Craig was lying on a bank,
under the shade of a tree, in a beautiful part of the forest, all in
whitest bloom, and Elsie was seated near him.

There had been silence for some time, and the girl was quietly
reading.

"I wonder," said Craig at last, "if my life is really worth the care
that you and all the good people here have lavished on me?"

"How can you speak thus?" said Elsie, letting her book drop in her
lap, and looking into his face with those clear, blue eyes of hers.

"If you only knew all my sad, sinful story, you would not wonder that
I speak thus."

"Tell me your story: may I not hear it?"

"It is so long and, pardon me, so melancholy."

"Never mind, I will listen attentively."

Then Craig commenced.  He told her all the strange history of his
early demon-haunted life, about his recklessness, about his struggles
and his final victory over self.  He told her he verily did believe
that his mother's spirit was near him that night in the forest when
he made the vow which Providence in His mercy had enabled him to keep.

Yes, it was a long story.  The sun had gone down ere he had finished,
a crescent moon had appeared in the southern sky, and stars had come
out.  There was sweetness and beauty everywhere.  There was calm in
Craig's soul now.  For he had told Elsie something besides.  He had
told her that he had loved her from the first moment he had seen her,
and he had asked her in simple language to become his wife--to be his
guardian angel.

That same evening, when Archie came out into the garden, he found
Elsie still sitting by Craig's couch, but her hand was clasped in his.

Then Archie knew all, and a great, big sigh of relief escaped him,
for until this very moment he had been of opinion that Craig loved
Etheldene.