Friday evening. Eight o'clock. We had just finished dinner. A footman
entered with the evening post--a dozen letters--which he handed to the
Grand Duchess.

"Will you excuse me?" she said.

She looked at the seals of all the envelopes, then she opened one.

"That's it," she said when she'd read it.

She handed me the letter. It was a request for a subscription from some
philanthropical society in Hambourg. It informed the Grand Duchess that
there was to be a bazaar the following Monday for the benefit of working
class cr√®ches.

"We will go," said Aurora quietly. "This is the signal I arranged with
Boose."

I had known everything for two days. She had told me that when I gave
her the document I had found in _Petermann's Mittheilungen_ she had
written to Baron von Boose in the Congo. I have never known what kind of
force she had brought to bear upon the man, but the fact remains that
the letter Marthe had brought told the Grand Duchess that he had just
left Africa. He was now at Hambourg. It could hardly be doubted that he
had important revelations to make.

"I've made it worth his while," she murmured with her wan smile.

"We will go tomorrow," she said.

She looked at me, reflected a moment and then said:

"'Tis a little late in the day perhaps, my friend, but I begin to have
scruples. I'm abusing your devotion. Do you realize that you have
embarked upon a dangerous undertaking?"

"And you?" I said.

"Oh, it's different with me. I am fighting for my liberty, which is more
to me than life. Besides, whatever happens, I am the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg, and, more than that, a Tumene Princess. Behind me there is
the Czar and all the Russias. They would think twice in my case; but
you, dear friend! Think of Cyrus Beck. Think of Melusine. Why, for what
would you sacrifice yourself?"

There was such intensity of reproach in the look I gave her that proud
and haughty sovereign though she was, she hung her head.

"Forgive me," she murmured.

Then she added:

"Very well, we're agreed. We will start tomorrow. Ring. I must give the
necessary orders."

I pressed an electric bell. We heard steps. There was a knock at the
door.

"Come in," said Aurora.

The door opened.

"Oh!" was all the Grand Duchess said.

Lieutenant von Hagen had just appeared in the doorway. He was rather
pale and stood stiffly at attention, his right hand to his Kolbach, the
burnished chin-strap of which encircled his clenched jaw.

"Lieutenant von Hagen!" said Aurora when she had recovered from her
surprise. "Since when have officers under arrest acquired the habit of
leaving the citadel?"

Hagen stood like a rock and said nothing.

"Will you be kind enough to explain?... Your sentence has not been
remitted, so far as I know."

"It has, Your Highness!" murmured Hagen.

"It _has_!" cried the Grand Duchess. "Herr von Hagen, are you mad?"

"No, Your Highness," replied the little officer, in a low, insistent
voice. "My detention ceased this evening."

"Ceased!" exclaimed Aurora, beside herself. "Do you realize, Lieutenant,
how far this jesting may carry you? Do you know that one thing, and one
thing only, can remit a sentence of detention ordered by me?"

"I know it, Your Highness," said Hagen.

"And that one thing is ..."

"--WAR." The officer completed her sentence. It may strike you as highly
improbable, but the fact is that in the midst of the series of tragedies
which had just taken place at the Court of Lautenburg the great events
of the last week of July had passed almost unnoticed. We knew all about
the note to Serbia, of course, but since the night in the armoury
nothing had existed for us but the events I have described to you, not
even the Austrian Ultimatum, or the German "Kriegzustand." Nothing,
absolutely nothing. And now that one little word--War.

I looked at Hagen in stupefaction. He had exchanged his red cloak for
the grey-green field tunic.

Checking her surprise and trying to look as unconcerned as possible,
Aurora asked:

"War! Herr von Hagen? And against whom?"

"Russia, probably tonight, Your Highness," said the little officer.
"France, tomorrow, almost certainly. The Grand Duke arrived from Berlin
an hour ago, bringing with him the mobilization order for the Army
Corps."

Aurora went to the window and threw it wide open. It was stiflingly hot.

"I suppose, Lieutenant, that the Grand Duke commissioned you to convey
this important piece of news to me.... In that case I don't see why you
needed the escort of the four hussars I see down there at the door."

Hagen blushed violently, then turned pale. "Your Highness!" he murmured.

"What?" she said, with cold dignity.

"I have another duty to perform. Will you excuse me ..."

"Come, come, Lieutenant, don't be so nervous. If you are not even
capable of telling me your mission you'll never have the strength of
mind to carry it out. Tell me I'm a prisoner in my own palace. That is
so, isn't it?"

"Oh, Your Highness!" cried Hagen. "How could you think such a thing....
_I_, to accept such a ..."

"Then what is the trouble?"

The officer did not reply, but looked in my direction.

"Madam," I said, stepping forward, "please do not torture yourself thus.
Really, Herr von Hagen, it's so easy to say that you have been sent to
arrest me."

There was a pause.

"Is that true, sir?" said the Grand Duchess. Hagen hung his head.

"Can you explain the reason for this arrest?"

"Madam," said Hagen, recovering himself a little, "I am a soldier and
can only carry out my orders without questioning them. But it is not
difficult to understand. Monsieur Vignerte is French, and moreover, an
officer. France is mobilizing against us. We are told that French
aviators have already bombed ..."

"You are a soldier, sir, and obey the orders you receive," the Grand
Duchess interrupted. "That is as it should be, but are you quite sure
that you didn't suggest this particular order yourself?"

Hagen didn't answer, but the look of hatred he gave me was eloquent
enough.

The Grand Duchess turned to me sharply and said:

"Go and get dressed!"

She herself put on a long dark cloak. Then she went to her bureau. I saw
her rummage in it and bring out several objects which she slipped into
the roomy packets of the cloak.

"Herr von Hagen," she said, coming back, "are you to take Monsieur
Vignette to the citadel? At what time?"

"He must be there at ten o'clock, Your Highness."

With a smile of infinite scorn she put her hand on his shoulder.

"And so you actually thought," she said, "that I would let you lock him
up?"

There was overwhelming majesty in her look, her pose, her words. I saw
the officer hang his head. He trembled in every limb.

"Ludwig von Hagen," she continued, "a certain day, four years ago, I
learned that an officer of the 7th Hussars had cheated at cards. It
meant death and dishonour to him. The next day that officer's debts were
paid, the affair was hushed up and he himself, selected by me for my
orderly officer, astonished the whole garrison by his strange and rapid
change of fortune. Remarks were passed to which I paid no attention. You
know yourself that the sole motive of my action was my wish to rescue
from infamy a brave young man, who bore a great name and in whom I
believed.

"He, on the other hand," she said, pointing to me, "not only owes me
nothing, but indeed suffered at first from my indifference, nay, scorn,
the result of unworthy suspicions. He never showed any resentment.
Quietly, secretly he has been working for me. Perhaps he himself does
not know the full meaning of what he has done. But he certainly knew he
was risking his life. And now the man who owes me everything has come to
arrest the man to whom I owe everything!"

Tears ran down the face of the little hussar.

"What do you wish me to do?" he murmured in a tremulous, hoarse voice.

"I want you to pay the debt you owe me," replied Aurora. "The time has
come and you cannot complain, for you have brought it on yourself."

"Give your orders," he said. "I will obey."

"Go downstairs and begin by sending your men away. Find some pretext
which won't be awkward for you later on.

"Now go to the garage," she said, when he came back. "There are still
some chauffeurs about. Make them get out the big grey with a full supply
of petrol. Don't light the lamps. Bring it down below yourself. It is
now twenty minutes to nine. Be there at ten to."

Aurora laid a map out on the table and studied it. "It's obviously
shorter by Aix-la-Chapelle and Belgium," she murmured, "but I know the
Wiesbaden-Thionville route better."

"Are you ready?" she said.

"What are you going to do?" I asked.

"Take you back to France, of course."

She added:

"I have put some money and a revolver in the pocket of your coat. You
can get anywhere with those."

Aurora was just beauty itself then, my friend. If you'd only seen her at
that moment you'd understand why I can't control my voice at this point.

There was a dull roar under the window. The _Benz_ was there.

"Come," said Aurora.

At that moment Hagen came in. His air of sullen annoyance had deserted
him now, I can tell you. He fell at the Grand Duchess's feet.

"You are going! You are going with him, for ever!" he murmured with a
sob in his voice.

She looked at him more kindly.

"If that is your idea, Herr von Hagen, it is all the more praiseworthy
of you to have obeyed. You may know, however, that I'm not going. I'm
bound to this place which I loathe by the task that still lies before
me. But for the moment my duty is to save him who has given up
everything for me."

"Oh, thank you! thank you!" said the young man.

"You had better wait a bit before thanking me," she said. "I presume,
Herr von Hagen, that you have your identity card and mobilization orders
on you?"

He rose, quivering with horror.

"My mobilization orders?" he repeated, deadly pale.

"Yes," she said calmly. "Oblige me by handing them over to Monsieur
Vignerte. We might be stopped between here and the frontier. Of course
I know that in all probability I shall only have to mention my name to
get through. But we might come across some stupid sentry. We must not
lose any time. Lieutenant von Hagen will be able to get anywhere. Come.
Quick!"

The officer was white as death. A terrible conflict was raging within
him.

"You are now taking my honour from me, Madam!" he blurted out at length.

"I should only be taking back what I gave you myself, Herr von Hagen,"
said Aurora, pitilessly. "But you mustn't exaggerate. It will be your
own fault if you are compromised. I ask but two things of you. First
that you wait until ten o'clock to give the alarm that we have gone.
Secondly, that you arrange matters so that they shall think we have
taken the Aix-la-Chapelle route. If the Grand Duke is shameless enough
to telegraph or telephone it must not be in our direction. Come.
Good-bye. I shall be back by this time tomorrow."

She held out a hand which he bathed with his tears.

"I may count on you, friend, mayn't I?"

Choking with emotion, he nodded.

I myself was utterly overcome and went forward to offer my hand to the
man who was risking everything for me at that moment. But he started
back and replied with a look of unutterable hatred.

"Monsieur, I pray God that we may meet again elsewhere--and soon."

Aurora shrugged her shoulders, and I heard her murmur something about
the stupidity of men. But she was already on the stairs. I followed her,
but not before I had had one last look at her room with its rugs, its
jewels, and its glorious, fading flowers.

"Get in," she said in a low voice.

I climbed into the great car and we started off.

As we sped over the La Meilleraie bridge the clocks of Lautenburg and in
the old tower of the castle were just striking nine.