In accordance with the principles set forth in Edgar Allan Poe's
"Psychology of Furnishing," the Grand Duchess's room was elliptical. A
large mauve globe, set in the ceiling, shed a misty, shadowless light.

On the walls were prints of Burne-Jones, Constable and Gustave Moreau.

The room was full of the three things I love most--flowers, rugs and
precious stones. Flowers invaded every corner, and it was quite five
minutes before I got used to their overpowering scent. Then the soothing
fragrance possessed me, and I was almost able to distinguish between
them. Roses and lilies, of course, predominated, though merely as a
glorious framework in which the riches of the Tcherna and the Caucasus
were exhibited in bewildering profusion. Against the walls were massed
the mullein of Mongolia, with their great spikes of flowers nearly a
yard long. The musky pink centaury swarmed on every table. Purple
passion-flowers, the spring marvel of Aral's desolate shores, tuberoses
from Erivan, crimson scabious, monster carnations of every hue, linaria
and love-lies-bleeding, balsam and nigella, primroses of Kasbeck, huge
red moonflowers from the defiles of Daried, the everlasting-flower of
Colchis, once the refuge of the mythical green bird--all these flowers,
known or unknown among us, turned that cool room into the haunt of
eternal spring.

The sweet-smelling irises, of a deep violet hue approaching black,
almost held me spellbound. The Grand Duchess noticed this and smiled.

"Those are what I love best. They are brothers to those I used to gather
in my childhood by the banks of the Volga."

She sat down on the great, low bed, with its two polar-bear skins for a
cover, and took off the net which confined her hair. Her tawny mane fell
out over the white rugs. At her feet Melusine, stretched on a
tiger-skin, with her arm on the great beast's head, toyed with a kind of
guzla from which she drew wavering, plaintive sounds.

The Grand Duchess took off her jewels, one by one, and put them on
little side-tables about the bed. On a chest, with a top of green onyx
and painted like a Persian cabinet, I noticed the barbaric tiara she had
worn at the fÃªte of the 7th Hussars. By it was another, even heavier
one, in sapphires.

The floor was strewn with rugs on which little red and green roses from
Armenia swarmed like scarabs and ladybirds. A long necklace of amber and
turquoise, strung chaplet-wise, hung from the head of the bed, and above
it was a dark little niche where a burning lamp showed up a blue and
gold ikon.

Two large silver bowls, gloriously chased, stood near the Grand Duchess.
One was full of petals, the other of uncut jewels. In this she plunged
her hand, and as fine sand slips through the fingers, she let fall a
smooth bright rain of pearls and corundum, chalcedonies and beryls,
sardonyx and peridots.

O Margravine of Lautenburg, as you reclined there before me, you were
once more the Tartar princess, the fay of the East, the peri of the
Volga's mystic waters.