I was alone with the queen of my dreams. I had known that this moment
would come, but never imagined that it would find us in this leafy
tunnel, which I had passed many a time in my walks, without suspecting
its existence.

For a few seconds she gazed at me in silence. My embarrassment was
absolutely indescribable. It was only later, much later, that I learned
how well it had served my cause. So nervous a visitor could hardly be an
enemy.

At length she spoke, and her voice was soft, so soft that I did not
recognize it.

"I am grateful, Monsieur Vignerte, for your communication. You were
right in thinking that any relic of the late Grand Duke Rudolph could
not be a matter of indifference to me. Will you tell me," she added,
"how this paper came into your possession?"

I told her the whole story of my discovery. There must have been a
wealth of emotion and candour in my words, for I felt she was touched.

"Monsieur," she said, and her words were gentleness itself, "if, as I
hope, we are to know each other better, you will, I feel sure, cease to
bear me any ill-will for what may have seemed unmannerly in my behaviour
towards you. No, don't protest. That behaviour was deliberate, monsieur.
Indifference in a woman is always feigned. You must believe that, to
understand me, certain factors are required which are far from being in
your possession."

Where was the pretty speech I had promised myself in reply to these
words, long foreseen?

"Are you always working, Monsieur Vignerte?" asked Aurora, with a smile
tinged with delicate irony.

"Madam!" I murmured, overcome.

"Oh! I have no intention of taking you from your exalted pupil, but I
cannot help remembering that when the Grand Duke brought you here, it
was with a kindly idea of lending you to me occasionally. I have only
myself to blame for not taking advantage of his forethought before."

My doubts as to whether she was serious or not nailed me, dumb, to the
spot.

"Do you play bridge?" she asked.

"Yes--a little," I stammered, blessing Kessel and old Colonel von
Wendel, to whom I owed this latest accomplishment.

"We--that is, Fr√§ulein von Graffenfried, Lieutenant von Hagen and
I--play bridge every evening. You shall make a fourth. You will do us a
much greater service than you imagine," she added, smiling. "I need
hardly add that you must come when you like."

"I understand, too," she continued, "that you have some most interesting
French books. I do a certain amount of reading, and should be very glad
to become acquainted with them, providing I'm not robbing that good Frau
von Wendel."

I blushed atrociously.

"Very well, then," she said, noticing nothing. "You will come when you
like, Monsieur Vignerte; but if you will let me give you further proof
of my gratitude by making a request, may I say that I shall be happy to
see you in my boudoir this evening, about half-past nine."

I bowed and was about to withdraw when she beckoned me back.

"Monsieur," she said in low, grave tones, "of course, it is understood
that everything touching this is strictly between ourselves."

She indicated my letter, which she had just drawn from one pocket of her
black, full-skirted jacket.

I bowed again.

"This evening, then, Monsieur Vignerte, and if you would do me a last
kindness, please go out as quietly as you possibly can, so as not to
scare away the thrushes."

I returned to the palace by a circuitous route, along the Melna. A
kingfisher skimmed backwards and forwards over the darkening water. It
was of the same colour as the emerald I had just noticed on the white
finger of Aurora of Lautenburg-Detmold.