I

                         _Ill-Starred Voyage_


Gerry Carlyle draped her very lovely form over the
functionally-designed Plastair and nibbled moodily at a long, bronze
curl. She had just discovered how vulnerable she was and, like all
important public figures who happen to find themselves in such a
situation, she was annoyed.

That she was important, no one could deny. Gerry Carlyle was perhaps
the most famous woman on Earth. She was beautiful. She was rich. And
she was amazingly successful in a profession so rigorous and exacting
that not one man in a thousand would dare face the dangers and
hardships and excitement that she faced almost daily.

Queen of the space-rovers, in her mighty ship, _The Ark_, this slim
girl covered nearly the entire Solar System in her quest for exotic
and weird life-forms to be returned alive for the edification and
astonishment of the public at the London Interplanetary Zoo. Her name
was a byword, and she was respected and loved throughout the System for
her courage, as well as her femininity.

And yet, for all this, Gerry Carlyle was very vulnerable in one regard.
Like all champions, she couldn't pass up a dare or a challenge, no
matter what its nature. She had to take on all comers, and she had just
realized that fact.

"The nerve of that fellow!" she muttered, then looked up in annoyance
at her fianc√©, Tommy Strike. "You're none too sympathetic, either. What
are you pacing around for?"

Strike was medium tall, and darkly good-looking in a rugged sort of
way. He grinned tolerantly at her, the grin that always made her heart
stumble.

"Just trying out the new flooring," he said.

The pilot room and main corridors of _The Ark_ had just been refloored
with zincal, the new metal, plastic, air bubble combination which gave
under the foot like an expensive rug, but which never showed signs of
wear.

Gerry pouted.

"Well, you might show a little interest," she said. "After all, you're
second in command around here." But Gerry was not the pouting kind, so
the pout was not very successful.

"You've been mumbling to yourself for the past half hour," Tommy Strike
pointed out. "How do you expect me to know what it's all about? If you
care to commence at the commencement, in words of one syllable, so my
dull wits can grasp whatever it is that has so upset you, perhaps I'll
listen."

Gerry gave her man a smoky, heavy-lidded glance, smiled, and made room
for him on the Plastair.

"It's this fellow Dacres," she began. "He came around the other day
with a business proposition. Said he wanted to use _The Ark_ to rescue
his brother whose expedition has apparently cracked up on Triton. He
offered to finance the whole thing, with me furnishing the regular
crew. He would simply be a passenger. Naturally, I turned him down.
Gerry Carlyle does not run a taxi service.

"Triton, eh?" Strike grunted. "Neptune's only satellite. And with
a very nasty reputation. Isn't that the place that's never been
explored?"

"That's the place, all right. Two or three expeditions tried it. None
ever returned."

"Oh, yeah. I remember reading about that. They call it the 'siren
satellite.' Very dramatic. And also a very long way from here. Your pal
Dacres must be well off to be able to afford such a jaunt."

Gerry tossed her blond hair.

"He's no pal of mine!" she said, hotly. "Wait till you hear what he
did! He's blackmailing me!"

"Ah?"

"He's gone to all the papers and telefilm services and spread the story
that I refused to rescue Dacres' brother because the rumors about
Triton have scared me off. How do you like that?"