XVII


                             PADLOCKED LIPS

YET though the public was in a measure prepared there was a gasp of
surprise when the word spread that Sheriff Matson had arrested and
brought to Wagon Wheel six cattlemen from the Hill Creek district. McCoy
and Rogers were so well and favourably known that the charge of murder
against them set tongues buzzing far and wide. Yerby had not been so
long in the district, but he, too, bore the best of reputations. By
reason of his riding and his gay good-fellowship Larry Silcott was a
favourite with the young people. In the cattle country, where he was
best known, Jack Cole’s character was as good as a letter of credit. Of
the six, Falkner alone bore a rather doubtful reputation.

When the news of the arrests reached the Dude Ranch, Ruth was out on the
mesa doing a sketch of the sunset. She was not really painting to any
purpose, but had come out to be alone. It had been a wonderful autumn
day of purple hills and drifting mists that wrapped the cañons in a
gossamer scarf of gray. Just below the mesa the valley lay in a golden
harmony of colour beneath a sky soft with rain clouds. It was a picture
that just now filled Ruth with deep peace. The brush lay idle in her
fingers, and on the face of the girl was a soft and rapt exaltation.

She had a secret. Sometimes it filled her with a wild and tremulous
delight. Again she stood before it with awe and even terror. More than
once in the night she had found herself weeping with poignant self-pity.
There were hours when her whole soul cried out for Rowan, and others
when she hated him with all the passionate intensity of her untutored
heart. Life, which had been so familiar and easy, took on strange and
inexplicable phases. She had become a mystery to herself.

A chill wind from the snow peaks swept the mesa. Ruth gathered up her
belongings and walked back to the house. She slipped in quietly by the
back door, intent on reaching her room unnoticed. As she passed the door
of the big lounging room the voice of Tim Flanders boomed out:

“I tell you that if McCoy led that raid there was no intention of
killing Tait and Gilroy. I’ve known Mac twenty-five years. He’s white
clear through.”

Ruth wheeled into the room instantly. She went straight to Flanders.

“Who says Rowan led that raid?” she demanded, white to the lips.

There was a long moment of silence. Then: “He’ll clear himself,”
Flanders replied lamely.

The young wife had not known her husband was even suspected. She caught
the back of a chair with a grip so tight that the knuckles lost their
colour.

“Tell me—tell me what you mean.”

He tried to break it gently, but blundered out that the sheriff had to
arrest somebody and had chosen McCoy among others.

“Where is he?” And when she knew: “Take me to him!” she ordered.

Flanders wasted no words in remonstrance. He agreed at once, and had his
car waiting at the door before Ruth had packed her suitcase. Through the
darkness he drove down the steep mountain road to Wagon Wheel.

By the time they reached town it was too late to get permission of the
sheriff to see her husband that night, but Tim made arrangements by
which she was to be admitted to his cell as soon as breakfast was over
next morning.

Ruth slept brokenly, waking from bad dreams to a realization of the
dreary truth. One of the dreams was that they were taking Rowan out to
hang him and he refused to say good-bye to her.

When she came to breakfast at the hotel it was with no appetite. Tim
insisted on her eating, but the toast she munched at stuck in her
throat.

“You drink your coffee, anyhow, honey. You’ll feel better,” he urged.