Barbara smiled confidently, but with a slightly sour twist to her
pretty lips; it led Scyth to think that there was some derision in her
mind. She confirmed it by saying, "Scyth, since you are going on with
your program no matter what happens, and your concern about warning the
people has worked no matter what happens to Dusty Britton, why do you
bother coming back for a look-see?"

Scyth squirmed uncomfortably. Despite certain jokes to the contrary, it
is not acceptable to confront a desirable young lady of barely speaking
acquaintance and flatly state the delicate proposition. The difficulty
here was that no matter how he tried, Barbara Crandall was turning the
trend of conversation right back onto the old original trail.

"You're an actress," he said.

"So I'm told."

Scyth smiled. "You're popular? You are in demand here?"

"I am on my way up," she said.

"Barbara, you could be a popular actress, you know."

"Someday I shall be. But this does not come overnight, Scyth. It takes
work, you know."

"I have an idea that the flavor of the foreign often helps."

"This is true."

"Then I have a suggestion. Why not come along with us back to Marandis?
You have youth and beauty and ability and also the exotic flavor. It--"

"What shall I be?" she returned quietly. "The ignorant but beautiful
barbarian? A clothes horse slightly incapable of holding an intelligent
conversation? This seldom works, Scyth. I've studied history a bit and
I recall the case of a native girl called Pocahontas who was carried
from her native surroundings into the height of the civilization for
the time. She was no actress--she was _exhibited_ like a pet monkey or
a rare zo√∂logical specimen. She died of what they called heartbreak.
I think heartbreak in this case was a combination of loneliness, of
facing the realization that she could never really belong to the
culture, of the futility of asking to be returned to her people. In
other words Pocahontas lost the will to live. So thank you, Scyth, but
I have no desire to be a chattel, or a curiosity.... Or a museum-piece."

Scyth nodded seriously. "I see your point. But I don't agree with you.
In the first place you are indulging in a conversation with me. In the
second place, you--"

"In the first place," said Barbara pointedly, "this conversation is
being carefully kept on my level, isn't it?"

"I wouldn't say that."

"Of course not. But look, Scyth, aren't you using that menslator of
yours?"

"Of course."

"Then the menslator keeps the conversation down to my level because
by its very nature it cannot convey an idea to me that is beyond my
understanding. Am I correct?"

"In a sense, yes. But--"

"Scyth, can you menslate a dog, for instance?"

"A dog has so little mind that--"

Barbara interrupted this with a wave of her hand. "So how long would it
be before you and your people became damned sick and tired of talking
down? It would be like trying to conduct an adult discussion in baby
talk, wouldn't it?"

Scyth shook his head. "Not entirely," he said. "It might be that way
at first. But this would not last. I don't know of your history, but
I assume that your Pocahontas was a true savage. You had nothing like
the menslator. Doubtless she never learned any real language and so
lacked the ability to use a language of any kind, let alone learn the
ramifications of the culture behind it. You would be on an entirely
different plane. You have a language and a culture and you are quick to
grasp a new idea. With a menslator you would learn the language well
enough in a short time and while the deeper factors of the culture
would always escape you, the superficial parts would eventually come
easy."