The drain dropped abruptly. They had moved into the planet's shadow.
Into night.

Instantly, Borden flicked off the feed-back field. His eyes darted to
the nearest object radar dial. They were still sixty miles high, but
falling at a tremendous speed. Borden's hands moved quickly over the
controls. Lift. Full atmosphere drive on a new course.

"We won't crash," he said evenly, "unless we're shot at with something
that works in the dark. But that sun-mirror business is odd. There's
only a certain size of sun-mirror that's economical. When they get too
big there are better weapons for the money. That one was big! So maybe
it's the best weapon this planet has. In which case we'll be nearest
safety at one of the ice-caps. Sun-mirrors will be handicapped in polar
regions!"

"They--tried to kill us!" Sattell panted suddenly. "They don't like
strangers! They fired on us without warning! We can't land on this
planet! We've got to go on!"

"If you want to know," Borden told him, "we haven't any fuel to go on
with. And we happen to be short of food. And did you remember--"

The ship's drive cut off. It had been burnt out and repaired by hand,
with inevitable drawbacks. Since the repair, it had run steadily for as
long as three days at a time. But also it had stopped four times in one
hour, and it had needed tinkering with three times in one day.

It ought to be overhauled. For now it had cut off, and they were forty
miles high. If it came on again they would live; if it didn't, they
wouldn't.

After six spine-chilling seconds the drive came on again. Ten minutes
later it went off for two seconds. Half an hour later it made that
ominous hiccoughing which presaged immediate and final failure. But it
didn't fail.

It was not pleasant to be so close to a planet they could not afford
to leave, with a drive that threatened to give up the ghost at any
instant, and with something on the planet which had used a sun-mirror
beam to try to volatilize the _DanaÃ«_ without parley. Apparently the
four in the small ship had the choice of dying on this planet or not
too far away in space.

They needed food, and they needed fuel. Above all, if the planet was
inhabited, they needed friendship, and they weren't likely to get it.

They were only ten miles high when signs of dawn appeared ahead. Of
course, if they happened to be moving with the planet's rotation,
they'd be moving into sunset from the night. They didn't know. Not yet.
But there were gray clouds ahead, to the right and below.

A little later they were five miles high and the clouds were still
below. There was twilight ahead. At two miles altitude the drive
hesitated for a moment, and caught again after all four in the
control room had stopped breathing.

Red sunlight appeared before the ship in a spreading, sprawling thin
line. At five thousand feet the ship had slowed to a bare crawl--a few
hundred miles an hour.

And the dawn came up like thunder.