XXXIII

THE GREEN MAN


THE parlour at the Green Man is the parlour pure and simple. It calls
itself by no grand-sounding title. You eat there, you sit there to
smoke and talk--if you do not sit in the garden, and you write there.

It has five round tables, deal, and covered with strong white cloths.
It has rush-bottomed chairs; it has casement windows; it has a great
fireplace with oak settles on either side of it. For the rest, the
walls are buff-washed, and hung with coloured prints, mainly of a
sporting nature. The floor is red stone, with three mats on it. The
mats are made of small loose strips of coloured stuff. The window
curtains are of highly coloured chintz.

The front door of the Green Man stands flush with the cobbled pavement.
Above the door swings the square sign with the name painted thereon.
It is a question, in Malford, from whence that name has originated. The
oldest inhabitants of the place, in particular Mrs. Joan Selby, who has
passed her ninetieth birthday, will tell you that it is in honour of
the Little People, who, long years since, footed it in the moonlight on
the grassy hill behind the house. She will declare that she had it from
the present ownerâ€™s great-grandfather himself, that the first visitor
to the house, when it was yet unnamed, was a little man, clad in green,
red-capped, who promised luck in his own name and that of his Tribe.

This, you may believe, is looked upon as sheer superstition by the
younger and more enlightened of the inhabitants of Malford. There is
one ribald wag, who declares that the name originated through the
verdant propensities of a former owner.

But for my part I lean to the first theory. And if you had ever sat in
the moonlight on the grassy hill behind the house, had seen the dark
green of the fairy rings among the brighter green of the field, had
heard the rippling of the stream at the foot of the hill, had seen the
pale gold of the massed primroses, had smelled their sweet fragrant
scent, had seen the misty shimmer of countless bluebells, then, I
fancy, you also would have been of my way of thinking.