XXV

THE ROUND-UP


The first stars were peeping from a cloud-strewn sky when Roy and
Teddy rode into the yards of the X Bar X. Without waiting to tie up
their horses, they rushed into the house. Mrs. Manley was talking to
Norine in the living room.

“Mother!” Teddy exclaimed, “where’s dad? Is he in?”

“Just went toward the corral, Teddy,” Mrs. Manley answered. Then, as
she saw Teddy’s face, she asked: “What happened? Is Belle all right?
She didn’t--”

“Nothing like that at all, Mom!” Roy cried, giving her a quick hug.
“We’ve got good news. We know where our horses are!”

“Do you, now?” Norine broke in, her eyes alight. “Then I’m glad! I
missed those ponies, so I did!”

“You’d better hurry after your father,” Mrs. Manley admonished.
“He’s riding again tonight after the rustlers. I do wish this were
over!”

“It will be soon, Mom!” declared Teddy, “Don’t worry now--we’ll have
that gang before morning!”

“But, boys, you’re all wet! You really must get some dry clothes
on!”

“When we find dad, Mom! Want to reach him before he leaves! Come on,
Teddy!”

The boys rushed from the room. Mrs. Manley turned to Norine with
something very much akin to pride in her eyes. Her boys were already
men!

Teddy reached his father just as the ranchman was throwing a saddle
on a bronco. The boys told their story quickly.

“tonight, hey?” Mr. Manley pondered. “Well, sons, you sure did a
fine piece of work. Now for the round-up of those rustlers! Teddy,
go to the bunk-house and tell the boys to get over here, pronto!
Tell ’em to bring guns! Then you an’ Roy get some food in you an’
some dry clothes on. This is the last act, boys! We ring the curtain
down on that gang tonight!”

Later, a small crowd of men sat on restless horses. From each belt
hung a heavy revolver, and in more than a few saddlecases reposed
long-barreled rifles. Nick Looker was there, and Pop Burns and Gus
Tripp, now recovered, and Jim Casey, and four other punchers. Teddy
and Roy were on either side of their father.

“Boys,” Mr. Manley called, “we’re set! To the north fence--and don’t
make any noise! When you get there lay low. Keep your broncs still.
When I see the rustlers I’ll fire one shot--then close in, an’ close
in quick! Understand? Then let’s go!”

There was a clatter of hoofs as the horses galloped over the ground.
During that ride hardly a word was spoken. Then the wait began. Time
seemed to stand still. The shadowy clouds disappeared, and the moon
shone forth, silhouetting the group of watching punchers. A breeze
sighed through the branches of a small grove of evergreens. Now and
then a pony whinnied nervously, to be instantly quieted by a firm
hand on his nostrils.

“Snakes, this is like waitin’ for an explosion when yore sittin’ on
top of th’ dynamite!” whispered Pop, who was close to Roy. “If
somethin’ don’t happen soon--”

Roy raised his hand. From the west seven riders came flashing over
the moon-flooded prairie, straight for the fence. The leader leaped
from his horse and, pulling something from his pocket, rested his
hand on the top wire. There was a sharp crack as the strand parted.

A single shot rang out. Then a yell.

“Get ’em, boys!” Roy shouted. “They’re our meat! Get the one with
the pliers in his hand--that’s Froud!”

Ponies sprang forward. Guns leaped from holsters and were leveled at
the astounded rustlers. Three of the latter turned in a flash and
rode off like the wind, rifles cracking them a farewell.

The man on foot looked about him desperately. In the moonlight the
scar on his face seemed like a small, silver snake crawling up his
face. He saw himself being surrounded by determined cowboys with
murderous guns in their hands.

With a cowardly yell, his courage fled and he fell to his knees.

“Don’t shoot!” he begged, his whole body shaking. “Don’t shoot me!
These men made me do it! They forced me into it! I ain’t done
nothin’. I swear I ain’t! I even killed the head of this gang,
Brand! You ought to let me off for doin’ that!”

Teddy looked down at the groveling figure. He turned and glanced at
the other rustlers, who, realizing that the game was up, stood
quietly by, hands held high in the air.

“Brave leader you’ve got,” the boy said.

One of the men looked down with a contemptuous sneer.

“Him? He ain’t no leader. He’s a yeller dog! Wait an’ I’ll fix him
for you. Hear what he said about Brand? I knew somethin’ was up. The
rat said Brand told him to go ahead with the raid an’ he’d meet us
at the Bowl. So you killed Brand, did you? Well, kiss yoreself
good-bye, ’cause yore sure goin’ on a long journey!”

The man’s hand flashed down to his side. There was a crack, and a
tongue of flame belched from the muzzle. Froud gave a shrill scream
and gripped his left shoulder at the same moment that Roy and Nick
rode closer and covered the fellow who had shot.

But the man did not fire again.

“I’m gettin’ pretty poor,” he said in a sad voice. “Don’t worry,
son, I won’t do no more shootin’. Here, take the gun. I won’t have
no use for it where I’m goin’. ’Bout time I had a rest, I guess.
First time I ever failed to kill a snake with one shot. And at ten
paces, too! Yo’re lucky, Froud! Look at him wiggle! Let’s hear you
sound yore rattles, you cussed sidewinder!”

“That’ll do,” Mr. Manley said sternly, riding up. “You almost had a
charge of murder against you--though it don’t seem like murder to
shoot a snake. Froud, stop that yellin’! You ain’t killed! Get on
your feet. Let’s see.” Mr. Manley dismounted, and, ripping the man’s
shirt open, disclosed a small gash in the fleshy part of the
shoulder.

“You snivilin’ coward!” the cattle owner cried. “All that shoutin’
over a scratch! Get on your bronc now, an’ be quick about it! We’re
ridin’ in. Nick an’ Gus, stay in back. Keep your guns out. The rest
of you ride close. If any one makes a break, shoot an’ shoot
straight! Here’s where this rustlin’ stops, once an’ for all! We’ll
find out from these rats who those were who got away. Then they
won’t dare show their faces around here again.”

“Don’t let him get near me,” Froud whined, pointing at the man who
had shot him. “He’ll kill me if he can! He was Brand’s friend--”

“An’ you knifed Brand,” Mr. Manley finished, with a fierce frown.
“You rat! You ought to be strung up!”

“But it ain’t murder to kill a rustler, is it?” Froud asked eagerly.
“It ain’t! I could get a reward fer doin’ it, couldn’t I? He’s
wanted! The police in three states want him! So if I show you his
body I get the reward, don’t I? Don’t I?”

Mr. Manley looked at him.

“Froud,” he said slowly, “I seen some snakes in my time. At least,
till now I thought I had. I can’t blame that bucker for shootin’
you. Too bad he wasn’t a better shot. Froud, listen to this! Brand
ain’t dead! He’s alive, an’ he’s lookin’ for you!”

Froud’s face went livid. He swayed in his saddle.

“He--he--ain’t dead?” he stammered. “But--I--”

“You tried your best! But it wasn’t quite good enough, an’ my boys
here saved his life. He got to that cabin of yours, an’ Roy an’
Teddy bound up his wound. He told everything, an’ he’ll be in the
saddle again in two weeks. Froud, you’re a marked man!”

The rustler caught at the saddle horn. He trembled as though with
the ague, and wet his lips with his tongue. He strove to speak, but
the words would not come.

“Save ’em,” Nick Looker said in a contemptuous voice. “You might
need later all the talk you got. Come on now! Ride on! We ain’t got
all night. All right, boss? Do we go?”

“We go, Nick! An’ don’t worry about watchin’ Froud. If he starts to
fall off, you might prop him back on again. Boys, we’re off! We’re
headin’ home with a rare cargo! Let’s go!”

The procession of horsemen filed into the yard of the X Bar X just
as the gray dawn was breaking. On all but four of the riders were
happy grins. One of these four sagged low in the saddle. Frequently
his tongue ran over his dry lips. And on the side of his face a
scar, like a small snake, shone livid against his sickly pallor.

Teddy and Roy could hardly wait to ride to Cottonwood Bowl.
Swallowing a hasty breakfast, they started, together with Nick and
Pop. Mr. Manley stayed at the ranch to guard the prisoners until the
sheriff from Hawley could take them into custody.

As the riders reached the spot Brand had described, Teddy mounted
the rock and parted the brush which grew on top. He looked over.
Then he gave a yell.

“Flash! And Star and General! Running around like colts! Take a
look, Roy! Take a look! Baby! Let’s get down there quick! Here’s the
path around to the left! Come on, Roy! Hurry up! Wow, you old bronc
you! Be with you in a minute!”

“Just like kids,” Nick said to Pop, with a grin, as the two brothers
ran down the path toward the enclosure. “They’re crazy to get their
ponies under them, an’ I don’t know as I blame ’em! Golly--watch
’em! Look at Roy! By jimminy, he’s _kissin’_ the bronc! Now he’s
on--so is Teddy! Yay, boy! See ’em go! Ride ’em, cowboy! Yay!”

Around the Bowl the boys flashed, milling the small herd of cattle
like veterans. Then they broke the cows and ran them out of the Bowl
into the path. Aided by Nick and Pop, they started the drive for the
X Bar X, leading General and their other horses.

“Take a look at him!” Roy exclaimed, patting Star’s side. “Skin
shines like satin! Must have taken good care of you, bronc! That’s
another thing we’ve got to thank Checkered Shirt for. Golly, it’s
good to be astride again!”

“Same here!” Teddy cried. “Gee, I never expected to see this ole
horse again! Did I, you crazy coot, you? Nope, he says! Never did!
See him nod his head? Atta baby! Speak up!”

“Yo’re sure happy, ain’t you?” Pop grinned.

“I’ll tell a maverick!” Roy exploded. “Why shouldn’t we be? An’ wait
till dad sees General! Boy! He won’t be _very_ glad!”

At last they reached the X Bar X with the cattle. It was a long,
dusty, hot ride, but to Teddy and Roy it was just a pleasure jaunt.
The cattle were placed in the X Bar X corral until Mr. Ball should
send for them. Mr. Manley was overjoyed to see General again, and
insisted on riding with the two boys back to the cabin where they
had left Checkered Shirt, although Mrs. Manley was sure they would
fall asleep in their saddles. They decided that it would be better
to bring the wounded man back to the ranch if he could be moved,
rather than to waste time getting a doctor to the out-of-the-way
cabin.

To his wife’s objection that he needed rest, Mr. Manley answered:

“Don’t worry about us, Barbara. We won’t fall asleep. Not on these
broncs! Hey, Teddy? Nick, when the sheriff comes, tell a few of the
boys to saddle up and help him bring those four galoots to Hawley.
Guess they won’t give you no trouble. All right, boys, let’s go!”

When Mr. Manley and his two sons reached the cabin they noticed that
the door was open. Dismounting, they walked in.

The shack was deserted. On the floor in front of the fireplace was a
branding iron, resting on a piece of paper. Bending over, Teddy
picked the paper up. On it were the words:

    “Thanks fer helpin me out. Sorry I got to leev so soon,
    but I gess you no wy. My cut is mos better. Think Ill tak
    yore advice an quit rustlin. I just noticed the X on this
    iron ain’t korreck. The top is to large. So Im quittin.
    So long. Good luck to you.
                                                    “Brand.”

“Can you beat that?” Roy said, with a chuckle. “Stopping because he
made a mistake in a branding iron! Funny rustler, isn’t he? I sort
of like him, though. He’s no coward. Well, we may as well start
back. Baby, I’m getting sleepy! Wait!” He seized the iron that lay
on the floor. “For a souvenir. We’ll remember this summer, anyway!
So long, Checkered Shirt! Good luck to you, too!”

Indeed, the summer did linger long in the boys’ memories. More
exciting times were in store for them, as will be told in the next
book, called “The X Bar X Boys in Thunder Canyon.” But they never
forgot their adventures while chasing the rustlers and looking for
their stolen horses.

As they mounted and turned their faces toward home, Roy looked over
at Teddy. Mr. Manley smiled, for he knew what was coming.

“Want to ride over to see Curly tomorrow?” the boy asked, with a
grin.

Teddy smiled casually.

“My boy,” he said, “your innocence is sublime! We will ride to see
Nell, and maybe Ethel will be there. How about that?”

“Race you to that bush!” Roy returned. “Come on, Dad! Get in this!
Let’s see what General can do!”

With a yell the three started. Over the prairie they raced, their
laughter ringing high.

Neck and neck the three ponies reached the bush, and with happy
hearts the two boys and their father rode homeward.