Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XXX
THE COMING OF THE STORM


Winter was slow in claiming sovereignty over Nebraska in the year of
which we write, and coquetted with summer through all the weeks of
November and December. Such snows as had come were light and
short-lived, and the winds had been less furious and threatening than
usual at this season of the year.

Donald and Tibby had enjoyed many rides over the gray plains and river
wold, and were apparently the best of friends, notwithstanding Donalds
premature declaration. But their camaraderie was far from sweethearting.
It looked as if Tibby had decided to put their acquaintance on the
Ill-be-a-sister-to-you footing.

To a less determined man than Donald this might have been disheartening,
but he had firm faith in the efficacy of persistence, and though he
never annoyed Tibby with declarations of love, he made her ever
conscious of him as the considerate, attentive lover.

As for Tibby, she badgered, cajoled, teased, and tried his temper and
patience in the manner for which girls have been noted since the world
began. Why it is that the average girl delights in such actions has
never been satisfactorily explained, the parallel of such conduct being
found only in the cat playing with the live mouse.

With Tibby the feline nature seemed fully developed, and she toyed with
the victim in her claws most exasperatingly. Never consciously had she
given Donald reason to think, or flatter himself, that she cared for him
except as a good comrade with whom to pass the winter and summer of her
sojourn in this western land.

But when Tibby behaved worst there lurked a smile of conscious power in
the unrevealed depths of Donalds gray eyes, much to the girls vexation
and discomfiture, while he remained outwardly unruffled. He had entered
the race to win, and his nature was buoyant and strong. Why need he be
discouraged? Physically strong, handsome, and athletic, he was possessed
of average ability, enjoyed a good income, and his future looked
promising. Why should he fail? Thus he reasoned.

A fortuitous chain of events had thrown Donald into Tibbys society and
kept him in close communication with her until he felt that he knew her
better, appreciated more her real worth, of nature and character, than
any one else about her. She had challenged him to win her. He would make
it the business of his life to do so.

Mrs. Wylies change of plans had aided him in keeping Tibby in the
community, though had she gone away he doubtless would have followed
her. The bereaved woman shrank from meeting her society friends in
Forest City, and to go to the Pacific Slope was to put her in proximity
to her recreant husband, andsadder to contemplatehis newly wedded
wife. And Elinor had listened to her brothers persuasions to spend the
winter in their home. Thus, much to Donalds satisfaction, Tibby had
remained to be his daily companion in this isolated region. The world,
with its modern pleasures, seemed far away from them. He need fear no
competitor while she remained here. For this reason Donald could bide
his time, free from anxious disquietude.

How lovely the air is this morning, cried Tibby one day in early
January as she stepped from the door of Marks home and looked across
the farm-lit plains to the brightening glory of the winter sun in a sky
of cloud-fleeced blue. The low-lying ridge of hills skirting the eastern
horizon gave the effect of a mural and fortress-crowned landscape, and
Tibbys eyes glowed with pleasure as she gazed about her.

You should not brave, bare-headed, even the winters mildness, said
Donald, who had come over early to bring a message from Lissa.

Since when were you called Dr. Bartram? asked Tibby mockingly.

I was only prescribing the ounce of prevention, returned Donald.

O, the cure comes later, I suspect.

I am afraid it will have to, for one so careless as you are inclined to
be.

This is a lovely day for a ride. I am going to ride Tempest over to
Anna Falkners, Tibby continued, ignoring his remark.

Better not go so far. This bright morning is a weather breeder. I can
feel snow in the air.

Mr. Bartram, the role of mentor does not become you.

Think not? How am I as a weather prophet?

Worse and worse! One could have no faith in your predictions.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is light and conversational. The tone is teasing and friendly, and the point of view is third person limited.