Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Grace," said the startled man, rising to his feet, "are you awake?"

"Awake," she screamed--"screech" better describes the hard, raspy tone
with which she answered him. "Aye, awake and ready--for eighteen hours,
come eight bells; and all guns o' the port battery down the mizzen
hatch, and all hands drunk but the cook. What's to do?"

"Wake up, Grace," he commanded.

A convulsive shiver passed through her, she uttered a little gasp, then
closed her eyes, and opened them with her natural smile.

"Why, I did go to sleep, after all, didn't I?" she asked, softly.

"Yes, and talked and looked like the very deuce. Let's see what you are
reading." He took the book from her hands, but neither on the open page
nor upon any preceding could he find words similar to those she had
spoken.

"What were you dreaming of when I spoke to you?" he inquired.

"I didn't dream--at least, I don't remember. Did you speak?" She yawned
and arose. "I'll go to bed, Tom," she said. "Lock me up."

Beverton read the book, after she had retired, from the beginning to
the opened page; then sat down and pondered far into the night.

Next evening, on his way home, he visited a physician--a personal
friend, who had once met Mrs. Beverton--and to him he stated the
trouble.

"Self-hypnotized," said the doctor, "by the usual method--staring at a
bright object. Practically in the same condition as when sleep-walking.
You can cure her by suggestion."

"How--what do you mean?"

"Don't you know that a somnambulist will always obey orders--will
believe anything that is spoken in a firm, commanding tone, the same
as though hypnotized?"

"She didn't look and act like it. And where did she get that sailor
talk? It wasn't in the book she was reading."

"The book suggested the train of thought, nevertheless. The
subconscious memory is absolute. She read those words at some time in
her life, or heard them spoken--possibly in infancy."

"Well, it's too much for me. Can you take charge of her case?"

"No--although there is not, perhaps, a man in town more studied in
this subject than myself. But there is no one more unfit to operate.
I am too subjective, as the phrase is--too good a subject, easily
hypnotized, and thus unable to control even a self-hypnotized person.
As there is not a professional hypnotist in town it devolves upon you."

"But I know nothing about it."

"Learn. Your natural mastery over her renders you the one above all
others to treat her successfully. Let her stare at the knife again--or
any bright object. Lead back into her past, and try to find what was
on her mind when she first walked in her sleep; then tell her that her
fears or anxiety were groundless, and that she must never get up in her
sleep again."

He gave Beverton as much of practical instruction as was safe for a
novice to possess, and with some misgivings the half-credulous young
husband resolved to experiment alone. But in his first attempt to do
so, he found unexpected developments in the situation that seemed to
remove the solution farther yet from his powers.

Not daring to take her into his confidence, he waited, evening after
evening, for her to place herself under favoring conditions--to take
up the wearying tale of the sea, and to rest her eyes and brain by
staring at the glistening array of steel on the wall. She capriciously
and vivaciously declared that she would have nothing more to do with
either, that she would divert her mind by polishing up her neglected
accomplishment of stenography (from practice of which he had rescued
her by marriage), and while he fidgeted and made occasional more or
less adroit references to the story, which he pretended to admire, she
translated into hieroglyphics the random thoughts of her brain.

"For if I make a widow of myself some night," she said, "and an angel
of you, Tommie, and escape execution, I will need to earn my living,
don't you see? But if you like that horrid story, suppose you read to
me from where I left off, and I'll take it down for practice."

He had committed himself, and was bound to the task. He began at the
top of the page and read, but she mercifully stopped him part way to
the bottom, so that she might transcribe her notes and verify. This
measured her interest in the story, and as he had none himself he
gladly ceased, and she began her transcription. While waiting for her
he glanced at the ornament on the wall. It was bright, pleasing to the
eye--artistic in finish and design. It attracted his gaze, and having
secured it, held it; for the longer he looked the less inclined he felt
to look elsewhere, and at last, with the knife filling his vision to
the exclusion of the fork and steel, his eyelids drooped and his senses
left him.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with a man, Tom, speaking to his wife, Grace. He is startled to see her awake and asks her what she is doing. She tells him that she has been awake for 18 hours and that all the guns on the port battery are down the mizzen hatch. She also says that all hands are drunk but the cook. Tom asks her what she was dreaming of when he spoke to her. She says she does not remember. He then takes the book she was reading from her and looks through it, but cannot find any words similar to those she had spoken. He visits a doctor the next evening and tells him about the situation. The doctor says that Grace is self-hypnotized and that Tom can cure her by suggestion. He gives Tom some instructions on how to do this. Tom tries to follow the instructions, but finds it difficult. He eventually hypnotizes himself while looking at a knife on the wall. When he comes to, he is surprised to see Grace transcribing notes from the book he was reading. The scene ends with Tom and Grace both being surprised by the events that have transpired.