Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
At eight o'clock Pastor Silbermann, at the _Tempel_ in the Siegstrasse,
and Monsignor Kreppel in the Cathedral, celebrated the offices of the
respective cults, to which the soldiers of the Catholic and Reformed
confessions were conducted in detachments. Then at ten o'clock came the
review.

The weather favoured the 7th Lautenburg Hussars. The sun shone bright
and cold. From the square you could see the black leaves, gripped by the
gentle westerly breeze, fall slowly from the castle trees into the
Melna. I have said before that from my room I could not see the
parade-ground where the review was to be held. But rising at daybreak I
was in time to watch the 182nd Prussian Infantry Regiment, of which two
companies had been told off for general police duties, crossing the
Knigsplatz en route to its post. The immense throng filled my heart
with the joy of those who know that their seats are reserved.

At seven o'clock I was ready, although I had quite decided not to turn
out until much later, certainly not before the stands were half full. I
picked up some book and tried to read it, not stopping to analyse the
reasons for my growing excitement.

At nine o'clock the noise below became so marked and insistent that I
thought I could go down without looking absurd. How small and
insignificant I felt crossing the great square, the emptiness of which
was emphasized by the enormous crowd gathered round it, only kept within
bounds by a cordon of infantry with fixed bayonets. The stands were
three-quarters full when I arrived, and I should have had considerable
difficulty in finding my place if I hadn't seen a hat frantically waved
to attract my attention. It was Count de Marais.

"You're next to me," said the obliging diplomat. "All the better. We can
chat while we're waiting."

Glad of an opportunity of impressing me, he told me the names of the
distinguished individuals around us: Count Bela, the Austro-Hungarian
Minister, almost swallowed up in furs and an astrakhan cap with a silver
aigrette; M. Nekludoff, the Russian Minister, in a very unassuming
frock-coat; Monsignor Kreppel, with his heavy gold cross on a purple
sash, and Rector Etlicher, of Kiel Academy.

Suddenly I pressed his arm. A most attractive young woman had just taken
her place in the first row of the stand immediately in front of us. She
might have been twenty or twenty-five. Dark, extremely smooth-skinned
and languid in her movements, she was wearing a long blue coat and skirt
edged with skunk. One of her arms hanging loosely by her side, ended in
one of those huge muffs so fashionable at that time. A toque of skunk
framed the heavy black coils of her hair.

She noticed Marais and greeted him with a languid bow.

"Who is she?" I murmured.

"What," he said ecstatically. "You mean to say you don't know the Maid
of Honour, the Grand Duchess's inseparable confidante, Frulein
Melusine von Graffenfried? What on earth have you been doing with your
time since you came?"

"What a beauty she is!" I said.

"She's a beauty all right! You're not the first to make _that_
discovery. But you'd better realize, my boy," he added, with a curious
sly glance, "that there's nothing doing. Besides, you'll forget her
existence when the Grand Duchess arrives. Meanwhile she'll do, won't
she ..."

Translating words into deeds he touched our beautiful neighbour gently
on the shoulder.

"Frulein von Graffenfried, there are some things in the castle we
don't value as we should. Here is one of its residents, who has
not yet been presented to you and now solicits that honour. My
fellow-countryman, Monsieur Raoul Vignerte, tutor to His Highness Duke
Joachim."

The charming young woman turned round and gave me an angelic glance,
which, for some reason or other, reduced me to extreme confusion.

"Thank you, dear Count, for giving me an opportunity of knowing Monsieur
Vignerte otherwise than by reputation. Monsieur, let me hope we shall
meet again without having to wait for so special an occasion. But I'm
told you work so hard."

It was not the first time I was to learn how much more tactful
distinguished imbeciles are than people of reputed intelligence. Count
de Marais gave me further proof of this when he answered for me:

"No offence meant, dear friend, but perhaps it is easier to gain
admittance to the castle library than to your affections!"

Melusine's eyelids quivered imperceptibly.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is formal and polite. The narrator is third person omniscient, and the dialogue is stiff and stilted. There is a sense of tension and anticipation in the air, as the characters wait for the arrival of the Grand Duchess.