Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
II.

_BURLEY NEW FARM._

There was so much to be done before things could be got "straight" on
the new station, that the days and weeks flew by at a wonderful pace.
I pity the man or boy who is reduced to the expedient of killing
time.  Why if one is only pleasantly and usefully occupied, or
engaged in interesting pursuits, time kills itself, and we wonder
where it has gone to.

If I were to enter into a minute description of the setting-up of the
stock and agricultural farm, chapter after chapter would have to be
written, and still I should not have finished.  I do not think it
would be unprofitable reading either, nor such as one would feel
inclined to skip.  But as there are a deal of different ways of
building and furnishing new places the plan adopted by the three
friends might not be considered the best after all.  Besides,
improvements are taking place every day even in Bush-life.  However,
in the free-and-easy life one leads in the Bush one soon learns to
feel quite independent of the finer arts of the upholsterer.

In that last sentence I have used the adjective "easy;" but please to
observe it is adjoined to another hyphenically, and becomes one with
it--"free-and-easy."  There is really very little ease in the Bush.
Nor does a man want it or care for it--he goes there to work.
Loafers had best keep to cities and to city life, and look for their
_little_ enjoyments in parks and gardens by day, in smoke-filled
billiard-rooms or glaringly-lighted music-halls by night, go to bed
at midnight, and make a late breakfast on rusks and soda-water.  We
citizens of the woods and wilds do not envy them.  We go to bed with
the birds, or soon after.  We go to sleep, no matter how hard our
couches may be; and we do sleep too, and wake with clear heads and
clean tongues, and after breakfast feel that nothing in the world
will be a comfort to us but work.  Yes, men work in the Bush; and,
strange to say, though they go there young, they do not appear to
grow quickly old.  Grey hairs may come, and Nature may do a bit of
etching on their brows and around their eyes with the pencil of time,
but this does not make an atom of difference to their brains and
hearts.  These get a trifle tougher, that is all, but no older.

Well, of the three friends I think Archie made the best Bushman,
though Bob came next, then Harry, who really had developed his powers
of mind and body wonderfully, which only just proves that there is
nothing after all, even for a Cockney, like rubbing shoulders against
a rough world.

A dozen times a week at least Archie mentally thanked his father for
having taught him to work at home, and for the training he had
received in riding to hounds, in tramping over the fields and moors
with Branson, in gaining practical knowledge at the barnyards, and
last, though not least, in the good, honest, useful groundwork of
education received from his tutor Walton.

There was something else that Archie never failed to feel thankful to
heaven for, and that was the education his mother had given him.

Remember this: Archie was but a rough, harum-scarum kind of a British
boy at best, and religious teaching might have fallen on his soul as
water falls on a duck's back, to use a homely phrase.  But as a boy
he had lived in an atmosphere of refinement.  He constantly breathed
it till he became imbued with it; and he received the influence also
second-hand, or by reflection, from his brother Rupert and his sister.

Often and often in the Bush, around the log-fire of an evening, did
Archie speak proudly of that beloved twain to his companions.  His
language really had, at times, a smack of real, downright innocence
about it, as when he said to Bob once: "Mind you, Bob, I never was
what you might call good.  I said, and do say, my prayers, and all
the like of that; but Roup and Elsie were so high above me that,
after coming in from a day's work or a day on the hill, it used to be
like going into church on a week-day to enter the green parlour.  I
felt my own mental weakness, and I tried to put off my soul's
roughness with my dirty boots in the kitchen."

But Archie was now an excellent superintendent of work.  He knew when
things were being well done, and he determined they should be.
Nothing riled him more than an attempt on the part of any of the men
to take advantage of him.

They soon came to know him; not as a tyrant, but simply as one who
would have things rightly done, and who knew when they were being
rightly done, even if it were only so apparently simple a matter as
planting a fence-post; for there is a right way and a wrong way of
doing that.

The men spoke of him as the young Boss.  Harry being ignored in all
matters that required field-knowledge.

"We don't want nary a plumbline," said a man once, "when the young
Boss's around.  He carries a plumbline in his eye."


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

- The scene is set on a farm in the Bush. 
- The three friends are working to set up the new farm. 
- Archie is the best Bushman of the three, and he is thankful for his education and training. 
- The men speak of him as the young Boss.