Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
V
THE COURT-MARTIAL

That afternoon I saw a small detachment of the Kash Guard crossing the
market place. They came directly toward my pen and stopped before it.
The sergeant in charge addressed me. You are Brother Julian 9th? he
asked.

I am Julian 9th, I replied.

You had better be Brother Julian 9th when you are addressed by Brother
General Or-tis, he snapped back. You are under arrestcome with me!

What for? I asked.

Brother Or-tis will tell you if you do not knowyou are to be taken to
him.

So! It had come and it had come quickly. I felt sorry for Mother; but,
in a way, I was glad. If only there had been no such person in the world
as Juana St. John I should have been almost happy, for I knew Mother and
Father would come soon, and as she had always taught me, we would be
reunited in a happy world on the other sidea world in which there were
no Kalkars or taxesbut then there was a Juana St. John and I was very
sure of this world, while not quite so sure of the other which I had
never seen.

There seemed no particular reason for refusing to accompany the Kash
Guard. They would simply have killed me with their bullets, and if I
went I might have an opportunity to wipe out some more important swine
than they before I was killedif they intended killing me. One never
knows what they will doother than that it will be the wrong thing.

Well, they took me to the headquarters of the teivos, way down on the
shore of the lake; but as they took me in a large wagon drawn by horses
it was not a tiresome trip, and as I was not worrying, I rather enjoyed
it. We passed through many market places, for numerous districts lie
between ours and headquarters, and always the people stared at me, just
as I had stared at other prisoners being carted away to no one knew what
fate. Sometimes they came backsometimes they did not. I wondered which
I would do.

At last we arrived at headquarters after passing through miles of lofty
ruins where I had played and explored as a child. I was taken
immediately into Or-tis presence. He sat in a large room at the head of
a long table and I saw that there were other men sitting along the sides
of the table, the local representatives of that hated authority known as
The Twentyfour, the form of government that the Kalkars had brought with
them from the Moon a century before. The Twentyfour originally consisted
of a committee of that number. Now, however, it was but a name that
stood for power, for government and for tyranny. Jarth the Jemadar was,
in reality, what his lunar title indicatedemperor. Surrounding him was
a committee of twenty-four Kalkars; but as they had been appointed by
him and could be removed by him at will, they were nothing more than his
tools. And this body before which I had been haled had in our teivos the
same power as The Twentyfour which gave it birth, and so we spoke of it,
too, as The Twentyfour, or as the Teivos, as I at first thought it to
be.

Many of these men I recognized as members of the teivos. Pthav and
Hoffmeyer were there, representing our district, or misrepresenting it,
as Father always put it, yet I was presently sure that this could not be
a meeting of the teivos proper, as these were held in another building
farther southa magnificent pillared pile of olden times that the
Government had partially restored, as they had the headquarters, which
also had been a beautiful building in a past age, its great lions still
standing on either side of its broad entranceway, facing toward the
west.

No, it was not the teivos; but what could it be, and then it dawned upon
me that it must be an arm of the new law that Or-tis had announced, and
such it proved to bea special military tribunal for special offenders.
This was the first session, and it chanced to be my luck that I
committed my indiscretion just in time to be haled before it when it
needed someone to experiment on.

I was made to stand under guard at the foot of the table, and as I
looked up and down the rows of faces on either side, I saw not a
friendly eyeno person of my class or racejust swine, swine, swine.
Low-browed, brute-faced men, slouching in their chairs, slovenly in
their dress, uncouth, unwashed, unwholesome lookingthis was the
personnel of the court that was to try mefor what?

I was soon to find out. Or-tis asked who appeared against me and what
was the charge and then I saw Soor for the first time. He should have
been in his district collecting his taxes; but he wasnt. No, he was
here on more pleasant business. He eyed me malevolently and stated the
charge: Resisting an officer of the law in the discharge of his duty,
and assaulting same with a deadly weapon with intent to commit murder.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the protagonist, Julian 9th, being arrested by the Kash Guard and taken to the headquarters of the teivos (a local government body). There, he is met by Brother Or-tis, the head of the teivos, and a group of other men. Julian realizes that he is being tried by a special military tribunal, and wonders what he could have done to warrant such treatment. 
Soor, an officer of the law, states the charges against Julian: resisting arrest and assaulting an officer with a deadly weapon. Julian is shocked, as he doesn't remember doing either of these things. He is about to speak in his defense when Or-tis cuts him off, telling him that he will be given a chance to speak later. 
Or-tis then asks Soor to recount the events leading up to Julian's arrest. Soor does so, and his story is as follows: he and his men were sent to Julian's district to collect taxes, but were met with resistance from the locals. They were about to leave when Julian appeared and began to incite the crowd against them. Soor and his men tried to arrest Julian, but he resisted and eventually managed to grab one of their guns. He pointed it at Soor and pulled the trigger, but the gun misfired. Soor and his men were able to subdue Julian and take him into custody.
After hearing both sides of the story, the tribunal decides to find Julian guilty of the charges against him. He is sentenced to death, and is led away to be executed.