Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
How I managed to give Duke Joachim his history lesson next morning is a
thing I've never ceased to wonder at. I kept my eyes off the mirror,
terrified lest I should see a ghastly face reflected in it.

At eleven o'clock I was in the Archduchess's small boudoir.

The old Russian waiting-woman went off to tell Melusine, who came at
once. I could see from the half-humorous surprise in her manner that my
call, at that hour, was considered extremely strange.

"You want to see the Grand Duchess, my friend! You are very bold.
Well, as it's you... I'm sure you wouldn't have come without some
very good ..."

As she spoke she drew aside the curtains. The sun shone full on my face.
She started at my appearance, and with difficulty suppressed an
exclamation.

"I'll go and fetch her," she said simply.

I seemed to have been walking in my sleep, pushed on by the force of the
night's events. Left to myself my decision seemed utterly crazy. Why, in
a minute's time I should certainly be taken for the madman I had brought
myself to believe I was. How would Aurora take the story of my
extraordinary adventure? "Save her from the fits of depression and that
kind of spiritual disorder which are so fatal to her physical health."
The words came back to me. It was the request made to me by the Grand
Duke Frederick-Augustus. _This_ was an odd way of carrying out his
wishes. I wanted to bolt.

But the Grand Duchess was already there. She was in such high spirits
that morning that I thought I should never have the strength of mind to
break my news to her.

"Well, my friend," she said. "To what do I owe the pleasure of this
visit? Have you changed your time-table? Have you decided to give me
your mornings in future?"

My tell-tale face produced the same effect on her as on Melusine.

She took my arm and made me sit down on a sofa beside her.

"You nearly fell as you sat down," she said gravely. "Melusine, bring me
the blue casket."

It was a diminutive box in blue enamel. What heathen stimulant could it
contain? As soon as I had inhaled it at Aurora's bidding, I started as
if I'd had an electric shock.

"There!" she said, "you're better already." And added:

"Begin as soon as you feel you can. We're listening."

I told her everything you already know, from my first researches into
the Knigsmark drama to the final climax, my visit to the secret
chamber in the armoury and my sinister discovery.

From beginning to end she listened, calm and self-possessed, only
occasionally exchanging with Melusine a glance which revealed
astonishment rather than emotion.

When I had finished she did not speak for a moment, and then said
quietly:

"You have told us an extraordinary exciting story, but you mustn't be
surprised to hear that it does not arouse any other emotion in me.
There's one thing I admit, which comes as rather a shock: the fact that
at Lautenburg you have found a skeleton in the very same place where
there must be one in the palace of Hanover. But what does it prove,
granting that natural death is out of the question, but that the old
Dukes of Lautenburg had no greater respect for human life than their
Hanoverian neighbours? I have always thought so, and it's no great
surprise."

"But it isn't the presence of the skeleton which has been such a shock,
madame," I answered.

"What is it, then?" she said, in that slightly scornful tone she
immediately assumed when she thought you were trying to mystify her.

"It is," I said simply, but picking my words carefully, "that I had in
my hands the right tibia of the corpse which was concealed there, and
that in the middle of that tibia, on its outer surface, was the join of
an old fracture."

Aurora was standing now. She was pressing her hands to her temples. She
had turned deadly pale. Her staring eyes grew bigger and bigger.

"You're mad! You're mad!" she screamed. "Melusine, tell him he's mad!"


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very matter-of-fact, almost clinical. The narrator is telling the story of what happened in a dispassionate way, and the dialogue is also fairly flat. There is a sense of foreboding throughout, however, as the reader knows that the narrator is about to reveal something that will upset Aurora.