Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
_It was gone_!

In an instant he was upon his feet.  Whether the man below had stolen
it or not he dare not take the risk of staying in that lonely place
unarmed.  He must make his way into the night and trust to fortune
that he would evade pursuit should there be any.

Very softly he felt his way about, hunting for a window or trapdoor.
But there was no way of escape.  Under the door leading to the
stairway shone a rim of light thrown up by the peat fire below, and
in one place where the wood had been eaten by mice there was a round
hole large enough to command the room beneath.  He lay at his length
and peered down.

To his horror there were four men gathered about the fire--the
innkeeper and three ragged, crouching figures, with cruelty and
murder written all over their faces.  They were dressed in a tartan
so filthy and stained with rain and mud that Rob was ignorant of
their clan.  They were shaggy as cattle beasts, dirty,
smoke-blackened fellows, below the average size, active as wild cats,
and chattering in whispers like a crew of unwashed monkeys.  Even in
the remnants of the Chevalier's army Rob had not encountered such as
these.  Only in Lochaber and Rannoch could such scourings of the
clans be found until one met the red Macgregors which Providence
forfend.

The innkeeper had his back turned to the stairway, but by the motion
of his hands Rob read what he said like an open page.  He was telling
them of the silver that he, in his rashness, had exposed.

In the red firelight Rob could see their eyes gleam beneath their
matted hair.  With hypnotized gaze he watched a man unsheath his dirk
and make a gesture significant enough, and with a gurgle in the
throat requiring no explanation.  So that was to be the end of it
all--a secret murder by a band of lawless caterans ready to prey upon
every stranger luckless enough to beg a night's lodging.  He would
never see Muckle John again.  It made him wonder what he would have
done to save his life.  Muckle John always had a way.

[Illustration: HE WATCHED ONE OF THE MEN UNSHEATH HIS DIRK AND MAKE A
GESTURE SIGNIFICANT ENOUGH.]

Down below the men had risen to their feet.  He saw them standing in
their own steam, their heads close together, and their beards wagging
as they whispered.  Then one by one they approached the stairway.  A
wild terror seized him at that.  The soft pat of their brogues upon
the rungs of the ladder and the creak of it under their weight was
like to make him scream.

Starting back he stood upon the trap door in the empty hope that they
would not be able to lift it.  A moment, and he felt it give a faint
heave under him.  It was delivered gently, as though the man on the
ladder suspected it would be stiff or difficult to push back.

And then there was absolute silence.

Did they suspect that he was awake?  Rob listened intently.  But what
he heard was the innkeeper softly ordering them back, and at that
moment there sounded outside in the night a man's voice calling.

Once more Rob lay upon the floor and peered below.  Around the fire
the men were sitting as before.  In the doorway the innkeeper was
standing with the firelight upon his back.  Outside there was the
humid noise of a horse losing its hold in sopping ground, and again a
voice called--

"Can you give me shelter?"

With a backward glance the innkeeper disappeared, leaving those
crouching figures utterly silent.  To Rob a wild flash of hope flamed
suddenly.  Who could say but this might be a friend in distress?

He heard the innkeeper open the door in the byre below him and stall
the horse; but he never moved in his eagerness to watch who should
enter the place.  Suddenly a man looked in at the group about the
fire, and hesitated as though he wished himself back upon the road.
Then, entering, he drew off his cloak.

It was John Murray of Broughton.

The three men round the fire made no motion, threatening or
otherwise.  They crouched on their haunches as before, watching him
under their shaggy eyebrows.

Murray, who was no coward in ordinary circumstances, but only highly
strung and with the Lowland caution, stood out of their range
obviously ill at ease, awaiting the innkeeper's return.

To Rob he looked very worn and hollow-cheeked and his clothes cheap
and ill-fitting like the dress of a small Ayrshire farmer.  A sword
was at his side and there was a bulge in his coat-pocket like the
butt end of a pistol, but Rob took little comfort from that, knowing
how poor a defence a single man like Murray would put up under a
swift attack.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of fear and danger.