Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
I had never spent a penny on a cab in Paris, except when luggage made
one necessary going on or returning from holidays. As soon as I came
out, however, I took one straight to my lodgings, so great was my haste
to see what was inside that envelope I dared not open in the street.

Indeed, I soon began to feel the benefits that accrue from the society
of the great. "The Herr Tutor," ran a document, with the heading of the
Ducal chancery, "will please find within the first quarter's salary and
a thousand marks for travelling expenses." Three thousand five hundred
marks accompanied this pleasant invitation.

Four thousand francs and more! I, who had entered Paris only the day
before without knowing what I should have to live on in a week's time,
possessed four thousand francs and more!

My call on M. Thierry was on my mind, and I decided to get it over at
once, telling him I should be leaving the next day.

I found him in his room.

"I can see by your face," he said, "that everything is going well with
you. I am glad of it, as perhaps I have alarmed you unnecessarily. When
do you start?"

"Tomorrow," I said.

"So this is your last visit, dear boy. What can I say to you? I am sure
you will carry out your pedagogic functions admirably. Don't forget the
great maxim of Pascal's father: 'Try to keep your pupil ever worthy of
his task.' That principle cannot be observed by the ordinary
schoolmaster who has to address himself to the average of a class. But
when you are dealing with a single pupil you can, and should, apply it."

The splendid old man then gave me some suggestions as to the choice of
books in preparing my courses of study. He insisted on my taking his
_History of German Literature_, which I was to find extremely valuable
on many occasions at Lautenburg.

"You've no need to thank me," he said, as I murmured words of gratitude.
"Probably it is I who will be in your debt. I told you that at
Lautenburg you will have a magnificent library at your disposal. The
librarian, Professor Cyrus Beck--whom I have met occasionally at various
conferences--is a jealous guardian, but he is also a man of learning. I
have no doubt that you will be allowed the use of the books and
manuscripts which do not bear directly on the great work--the history of
the theories of the transmutation of metals--on which he is engaged. You
may know, perhaps, that I am myself writing a book on manners and
customs at the Court of Hanover at the end of the seventeenth century. I
noticed at the Nationale in the catalogue of the Ducal library at
Lautenburg, that it contains material of the very highest importance.
When you left me this morning I went there to make a list of the
principal works I should like you to consult for me if you would be so
kind. I am sure that you would find the task very absorbing. Here is my
list. I attach particular importance to this work, _Stattmutter der
Kninglichen Huser Hannover und Preussen_, by the Grand Duchess of
Ahlden, published at Leipzig in 1852. In Paris we have only an
incomplete reprint. I also recommend the works of Cramer and Palmblad as
well as the _Roman Octavia_ (_Die Rmische Octavia_) of Duke Ulrich von
Wolfenbttel.

"Unfortunately," he continued, as I carefully folded his list, "I have
only been able to note the printed books. The manuscripts at Lautenburg
are not catalogued, but it is by examining them, dear boy, that you can
render me the greatest service. There is not the slightest doubt that
you will discover there the most precious material on German society of
the seventeenth century, that society superficially so refined to the
outward eye, but in reality more vicious and cruel than has ever been
imagined."

He held out his hands. His emotion told me that there was something
still to come.

"I would not for anything hark back to our conversation of this
morning," he murmured at length; "but you know, my boy, the interest I
take in you. I am more conscious of it than ever now you are going. I
beg of you never to yield to the desire, even to the invitations you
will doubtless get, to be drawn from your academic functions. Lautenburg
is a rich mine of material for those like ourselves whose mission it is
to write history. Let us write it and avoid the temptation to make it."

There was nothing but sincerity in my promise to keep this parting
advice ever present in my mind.

"Just one other thing. I know nothing of the Lautenburg household except
Prince Joachim, the Grand Duke, the Grand Duchess and Count Marais. At
one time there was a certain Baron von Boose there. If he is still there
don't see more of him than you can help. Be on your guard against him;
_always_ be on your guard against him."

I was curious to know the reason of this final warning, but M. Thierry
was once more the historian, the discreet official.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-The narrator is a young, inexperienced man who has just been hired as a tutor for a duke's son.
-M. Thierry is the narrator's old boss, and a well-respected historian.
-The Ducal chancery is the organization that has hired the narrator.
-Professor Cyrus Beck is the librarian at the narrator's new workplace.
-The Grand Duchess of Ahlden is the author of a book that M. Thierry has recommended to the narrator.
-Duke Ulrich von Wolfenbttel is the author of another book that M. Thierry has recommended.
-Baron von Boose is a man who M. Thierry warns the narrator to be wary of.