Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
Damestoy and Henriquez were asleep in the dug-out where the three
runners had come for them. With the natural deference of the private
soldier they had arranged the best spots for us--two holes with plenty
of straw and a pile of dark blankets.

The silence was broken only by the gentle breathing of these good
fellows and, occasionally, the squeak of a field-mouse hunting for the
ears still left in the straw. I could not see Vignerte, who was lying
beside me, but I was sure he was not asleep. The open door of the dug-out
showed a blue patch of sky with a silvery star hanging like a tear in
its depths.

An hour, perhaps, passed thus. Vignerte had not moved. He ought to have
been asleep, this mysterious comrade whom the war had sent me. Why was
he so moved tonight? What memories had possessed a mind which appeared
to be fixed ruthlessly on the thousand details of war as if to avoid
straying aimlessly through forbidden worlds?...

And suddenly I heard a deep sigh while a hand clasped mine.

"Vignerte, what on earth's the trouble?"

An even more convulsive clasp of his hand was all my reply.

Then I burnt my boats.

"Old man, dear old man. I think I've earned the right to call you that.
Let me share the trouble that's weighing on you. You are unhappy
tonight. Tell me your sorrow. If we were in Paris, or anywhere else, I
should not be guilty of this indiscretion. But a confidence which would
be absurd elsewhere becomes sacred here. Tomorrow, perhaps, we shall be
in action, Vignerte! Tomorrow, perhaps, four men will be digging our
graves where that German sleeps now. Won't you speak to me, Vignerte,
won't you tell me? ..."

I felt the pressure of his hand relax.

"It will be a long story, old fellow. And will you understand? I mean,
won't you think me a bit mad?"

"I'm listening," I said firmly.

"You shall hear then. For these memories almost choke me, and indeed
there are some which it would be selfish for me to take away alone. So
much the worse for you. You will get no sleep tonight! ..."

This is the strange story which Lieutenant Vignerte told me that night
of October 30th, 1914, at the spot which those who have known it call
the "Crossroads of Death."




THE SECRET SPRING




I


YOU are a University man, he began. You must forgive me if the opening
of my story is not free from a suggestion of bitterness against the
University of which I was never a member. No doubt my feelings are
without justification, since to the fact that I was never admitted I owe
memories which, after all, I would not exchange for a chair at the
Sorbonne.

I took the course marked out for those with some intelligence and no
money, and went in for scholarships. That means I undertook, somehow, to
get through examinations every year, to acquire a certain habit of mind
and with it, as climax, a teacher's diploma and a post in a provincial
school.

At first I justified the hopes reposed in me by the Council-General of
my Department. My scholarship at the Mont-de-Marsan school was succeeded
by another in advanced rhetoric at the Henry IV. school. There it was
that in 1912 I tried to get into the _cole Normale Suprieure_.
Thirty-five candidates were accepted. I came out thirty-seventh. By way
of consolation prize I was offered a scholarship at the _Facult des
Lettres_ of Bordeaux University.

I then did something which met with disapproval from the few friends who
took any interest in me. During my year as a boarder I had glimpsed
Paris as a convict sees green fields through the bars of his cell. I
remember myself as a penniless schoolboy walking in the Champs-Elyses
one Grand-Prix day in June. All the millionaires were returning home
from the races. Each of the cars that flashed down the avenue in a
brilliant stream cost ten times more than my poor self had cost since I
came into the world. A wonderful lemon and mauve light flooded the
scene. I was dazzled. This vision of extravagance inspired me with none
of the sentiments that turns the underdog into a rebel.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

In the scene, two soldiers are sleeping in a dug-out when one of them, Vignerte, is awoken by the other, Damestoy. Damestoy is curious about why Vignerte is so upset and asks him to share his story. Vignerte tells the story of how he became a soldier and of the events leading up to the present.