Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
VIII.

_IN THE WIDOW'S LONELY HUT._

Bob Cooper bade Archie and Branson good-bye that night at the bend of
the road, some half mile from his own home, and trudged sturdily on
in the starlight.  There was sufficient light "to see men as trees
walking."

"My mother'll think I'm out in th' woods," Bob said to himself.
"Well, she'll be glad when she knows she's wrong this time."

Once or twice he started, and looked cautiously, half-fearfully,
round him; for he felt certain he saw dark shadows in the field close
by, and heard the stealthy tread of footsteps.

He grasped the stout stick he carried all the firmer, for the poacher
had made enemies of late by separating himself from a well-known gang
of his old associates--men who, like the robbers in the ancient
ballad--

"Slept all day and waked all night,
And kept the country round in fright."


On he went; and the strange, uncomfortable feeling at his heart was
dispelled as, on rounding a corner of the road, he saw the light
glinting cheerfully from his mother's cottage.

"Poor old creature," he murmured half aloud, "many a sore heart I've
given her.  But I'll be a better boy now.  I'll----"

"Now, lads," shouted a voice, "have at him!"

"Back!" cried Bob Cooper, brandishing his cudgel.  "Back, or it'll be
worse for you!"

The dark shadows made a rush.  Bob struck out with all his force, and
one after another fell beneath his arm.  But a blow from behind
disabled him at last, and down he went, just as his distracted mother
came rushing, lantern in hand, from her hut.  There was the sharp
click of the handcuffs, and Bob Cooper was a prisoner.  The
lantern-light fell on the uniforms of policemen.

"What is it?  Oh, what has my laddie been doin'?"

"Murder, missus, or something very like it!  There has been dark
doin's in th' hill to-night!"

Bob grasped the nearest policeman by the arm with his manacled hands.

"When--when did ye say it had happened?"

"You know too well, lad.  Not two hours ago.  Don't sham innocence;
it sits but ill on a face like yours."

"Mother," cried Bob bewilderingly, "I know nothing of it!  I'm
innocent!"

But his mother heard not his words.  She had fainted, and with rough
kindness was carried into the hut and laid upon the bed.  When she
revived some what they left her.

It was a long, dismal ride the unhappy man had that night; and indeed
it was well on in the morning before the party with their prisoner
reached the town of B----.

Bob's appearance before a magistrate was followed almost instantly by
his dismissal to the cells again.  The magistrate knew him.  The
police had caught him "red-handed," so they said, and had only
succeeded in making him prisoner "after a fierce resistance."

"Remanded for a week," without being allowed to say one word in his
own defence.

The policeman's hint to Bob's mother about "dark doin's in th' hill"
was founded on fearful facts.  A keeper had been killed after a
terrible mele with the gang of poachers, and several men had been
severely wounded on both sides.

The snow-storm that came on early on the morning after poor Bob
Cooper's capture was one of the severest ever remembered in
Northumbria.  The frost was hard too all day long.  The snow fell
incessantly, and lay in drifts like cliffs, fully seven feet high,
across the roads.

The wind blew high, sweeping the powdery snow hither and thither in
gusts.  It felt for all the world like going into a cold shower-bath
to put one's head even beyond the threshold of the door.  Nor did the
storm abate even at nightfall; but next day the wind died down, and
the face of the sky became clear, only along the southern horizon the
white clouds were still massed like hills and cliffs.


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

- Bob Cooper is a poacher who has made enemies with a gang of other poachers. 
- He is walking home one night when he is attacked by the gang. 
- He fights them off, but is eventually knocked unconscious. 
- He wakes up in handcuffs, accused of murder. 
- He is remanded for a week without being able to say anything in his defense. 
- It is later revealed that the murder was committed by the gang of poachers.