Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
IV

FRENCH GOLD

A thin moon was drifting above the scattered clouds when Muckle John
and Rob reached the head of a wild and desolate glen in Stratherrick,
and here for the first time since their flight from Culloden they
drew rein and alighted.  So stiff and weary was Rob that his
companion was compelled to lift him down, and lay him in the heather.

The horse, utterly done, stood with his head hanging forlornly, and
the sweat dripping from his neck upon the heather.  Few horses would
have carried them both so gallantly.

Muckle John had long since discarded his English wig and coat.  He
stood in his shirt and with his hair fluttering in the night wind
regarding with sombre eyes the blinking lights of a house down the
valley, a square white house two stories high.  Twice during the
brief halt a man had crept out of the encircling darkness and
scrutinized them narrowly.  There was no sound beyond the wind
sighing amongst the corries, but each time Muckle John had seen the
heather quiver before something noiseless and stealthy that
disappeared as softly as it had come.  Once from far up the hill he
heard a long whistle like a curlew on the wing.

At last he turned his head and let his eyes rest on Rob, and then
again upon the grey horse with its drooping head.  With a faint shrug
of his shoulders he shook the boy.

"Rob," said he, "do you ken yon house?"

With a groan Rob struggled up.

"Gortuleg House," he replied, "I know it well."

Muckle John of a sudden turned his head and raised his hand for
silence.

From far away along the track they had come was a sharp click-clack
like the rattle of a loose stone on a horse's hoof.

"Ye hear, Rob," he whispered, "there'll be few abed to-night.  Come
away, boy, this is a daft-like place to be found in."

From up the hill came the mournful whistle once again.  It was
answered by another far down the glen.

"The place is hotching with Frasers," he muttered, lifting Rob upon
the horse, "and where the Frasers are a man must feel his way, saving
your presence, Rob."

"They are our friends," said Rob stoutly, "and my people."

"I'm no denying it--though maybe ye had safer speak for yersel', Rob,
but to-day will end many a friendship, and I'm no trusting Lochiel
himsel' until I'm clear of this business."

Nearer they drew to the lights of Gortuleg House, but the closer they
came the more cautious grew Muckle John, feeling his way with
immoderate care, and with a hand upon the horse's nostrils for fear
of a whinny.  To the rear of the house there stood a wall with a few
stunted fruit-trees in an orchard.  In the same anxious silence
Muckle John hitched the bridle to a branch and lifted Rob down.

"Bide here," he whispered, "until I come, and if any one speaks to
you say that you're waiting upon Lord Lovat."

"Lord Lovat?"

"Who else?"

"But is he here?"

"Man Rob, I've no time to teach you elements of common sense.  If ye
see a wheen corbies driving across the sky what do ye ken?"

"That there's carrion," said Rob to humour his temper.

"And if ye see muckle muir-fowl cowering among the heather?"

"A hawk."

"You're doing finely, Rob;" he paused and leaning nearer added in a
whisper, "I am no sure but that the hawk is nearer than ye think..."
and with that he was gone, leaving Rob beneath the shadow of the
broken masonry.

Barely five minutes had passed before the thud of horses' flying feet
came beating down the glen.  The moon riding high in the sky glinted
on steel and silver, and at the commotion the door of Gortuleg House
opened and the figure of an old bent man was silhouetted in the
doorway, leaning upon a stick.  He was a grotesque enough
spectacle--very ponderous and unwieldy, large-faced and ruddy and
with shifty, speeding eyes almost buried in a mass of flesh.  He was
dressed in a loose coat, rough baggy breeches and stockings, with
large flat buckled shoes, and as he peered and craned his head he
tapped in a fever of impatience upon the flagged stone at the doorway.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Muckle John: a large man, former English soldier, now a Scottish rebel
2. Rob: a young boy, Muckle John's companion
3. The Frasers: Scottish rebels, friends of the boy
4. Lochiel: a Scottish rebel leader
5. Lord Lovat: an old, fat Scottish nobleman