Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Egan Rains was silent, studying the Hindu. The man was honest and
loyal, that much he could tell. But though he spoke English well, he
didn't think extensively in it and most of his thoughts were hidden in
a language Rains couldn't translate, mentally or otherwise. "Can you
teleport?" he asked.

"A mind carrier?" said Gowru. "No, I'm only a dyeman. I can do nothing
else."

He expected that; there weren't many who had multiple powers. "Do you
know anyone who can?"

"I have a friend who plays ping pong with it."

That was telekinetics, not teleportation, but it might be what he was
after. So far as the Rhine Institute knew, people with either ability
existed only in India. "How good is your friend?" he asked.

"At ping pong, very good. At tennis, poor. The ball is too heavy; he
can't move it fast enough."

Then that was a false lead. The person he wanted had to be much more
adept and powerful. Rains would have to look farther and Gowru would
have to help him. "Gowru, I'm an astronomer," he began.

The Hindu raised his eyebrows to express interest. "I've always had a
soft spot in my head for astronomy," he declared.

Evidently the idiom did change from country to country. "My colleagues
and I at Palomar have discovered a new comet," he went on. "It is a
strange comet, bigger than most, almost a tiny planet. The composition
is stranger still, mostly oxygen and water."

Gowru nodded sagely. "And you want me to color the water. That I can
do, any hue you want. But if there is much air and you want me to color
that too, you will have to be satisfied with a light tint, a pale blue
or green or pink."

"The color doesn't matter," said Rains gravely, and poured himself
another drink. "In seventeen years that comet is due to strike Earth."

The Hindu bowed his head. "I've had a feeling of doom since you
mentioned the comet," he said simply.

"Wrong," said Rains. "No doom. In seventeen years we'll have rockets
that can meet it out in space. We'll load hydrogen bombs into rockets
and blow the comet into fine crystals. But the orbit of the particles
will still intersect that of Earth, and it will fall as rain."

Gowru searched his memory for a foreign concept. "Forty days and forty
nights?"

"I don't know how long," said Rains wearily. "But whatever happens, the
water level of the oceans will rise--from fifty to three hundred feet
is the present estimate. After we study it longer we'll know exactly.
The land area will shrink, but that alone isn't disastrous. Forewarned,
not many lives would be lost. Most people will have time to move to
higher ground.

"However, there's another aspect. Air is also present in the comet and
will be added to our atmosphere. The earth will grow warmer and the
higher latitudes will become habitable. Perhaps we'll gain almost as
much living space as we lose."

"Then let's rejoice," said Gowru, reaching for the bottle. "It's not
every comet which is so considerate."

Rains replenished his own glass. "It's not an occasion for rejoicing.
We've calculated that, with the additional atmosphere and moisture,
astronomy will become extinct. Cloud covered, the planet will be much
like Venus. No one will be able to see the stars." He didn't mention
that a few of the highest mountains would still rise above the clouds.
He didn't because those mountains were in India and that country would
then have a monopoly on the science.

Gowru wrinkled his face in pleasure at the whisky and then assumed
a properly doleful expression. "I see. In seventeen years you'll be
unemployed." He added consolingly. "Maybe they'll give you a pension."

Rains' vision was growing a little fuzzy, but his intellectual goals
had not changed. "It's not the pension," he said irritably. "I intend
to save astronomy."

"It's not reasonable to be so obstinate when the heavens decree
otherwise," declared Gowru. "You should cultivate an interest in other
things. Girls are a nice hobby."

Rains muttered something about girls and Gowru interrupted.

"Good. We can start with girls and there's no telling where we'll end.
I'm a guide and I can help in such matters. How many do you want?"


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

Egan Rains: an astronomer who is trying to find a way to save astronomy from a comet that is going to destroy it
Gowru: a Hindu man who is helping Egan Rains and is also a ping pong player