What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Then, seeing her so broken and crushed before him, she who had always
held herself so proudly, Aubrey relented--for he loved her still--and,
as he saw the tears falling slowly from her downcast eyes on to her
clasped hands, he fell upon his knees beside her, and from the stern
judge became once more the humble suppliant.

Annie, Annie, never mind what I have said! I did not want to be harsh,
only to let you know--what I ought to have kept from you, I suppose.

You said I was wicked, sobbed Annie, woman-like, seizing the
advantage which his remorse at having caused her tears gave her.

Yes, I know--I was in a passion--I didnt mean it, of course, Annie.
You didnt tell me you were married--because you thought it would hurt
me, and you hated him, and wanted to forget his existence. Well, you
were quite right; I could see at a glance that he was an ill-tempered
brute, and that you were afraid of him.

He is not ill-tempered, flashed out Annie, with sudden fire. And all
that I am afraid of is that he wont come back to me, that some one
will tell him that I am happy without him, and that he will console
himself before I can let him know it is untrue.

Aubrey was silent for some minutes. He detected in this speech the ring
of genuine feeling; and anger and contempt for the woman before him,
who seemed to him at that moment the incarnation of fickleness and
deceit, overcame his love for her and raised him to his feet again.

I have no doubt he will wake sooner or later to a sense of what a
precious thing he is neglecting in your love! said he, in a biting
voice.

Thank you, returned Annie, brought to herself at once by this
taunt. I deserve every sneer you can cast at me; but you cannot make
me regret that I have at last discovered the worth of a man who has
suffered more at my hands than you have done without casting at me a
single taunt.

I congratulate you. I feel--I feel quite happy in having served as a
foil to such a perfect creature. I wont take up any more of your time,
Mrs. Braithwaite, said he, rushing to the door and groping blindly for
the handle, having forgotten his hat in his excitement.

Dont go away like that! said Annie, following him and sobbing,
meekly. I have behaved very, very badly; it was all through my conceit
in thinking I could not do anything wrong just because I did not mean
to. Will you forgive me, Mr. Cooke?

No, I wont--I cant, Mrs. Braithwaite!

Do forgive me, Aubrey!

He held out only one second longer, then took her little hands and
kissed them again and again.

You are the only woman who has ever treated me badly, and the only
woman I shall ever care a straw about. It is always like that, I
believe. Good-bye, Annie. I shall be married in a month, and dead in
two, I expect. Good-bye. And he tore a little rosebud from the bouquet
near her throat, and was out of the room and out of the house before
she could answer.

Her faults were punishing her bitterly now. She threw herself upon the
sofa in an agony of remorse and wretchedness, feeling that she had
behaved badly all round, that she was abandoned by every one, and that
she had deserved every pang which could torment her. She had trifled
with Aubrey, despised her husband, and now they both looked down upon
her and treated her as she deserved.

When the first excess of her grief and humiliation was over, her
thoughts all flowed into one channel, and the question which absorbed
her was, would Harry ever come back to a wife for whom he must, in
spite of his patience with her through that week at the end of which he
had run away, entertain at heart so great a contempt? She was herself
surprised at the persistency with which her thoughts returned to the
husband whom she had so disliked and despised at the time when no
self-reproach at the faults in her own conduct had risen to disturb
the placid superiority she felt over him.

She had begun to fret herself into a fever of anxiety at the thought
that she would never hear from him again, when, on her return home
from a walk one afternoon, she was told by the servant that a lady and
gentleman were in her sitting-room.

They did not come together, maam. The lady came first, and presently
the gentleman; and, when they heard you were out, they both said they
would wait for you. So I showed them both up-stairs, maam.

In the sitting-room Annie found Stephen, whom she had rightly guessed
to be one of the visitors, and Muriel West, whom she certainly neither
expected nor wished to see.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the protagonist, Annie, realizing the consequences of her actions. She has been unfaithful to her husband and has treated her lover, Aubrey, poorly. Now, both men have left her and she is feeling the full weight of her choices. This scene also sets up the conflict that Annie will face in the rest of the story: whether or not her husband will forgive her and take her back.