What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
My men were in battle dress for the landing--steel helmets painted
green, dirty green jackets, pants, cartridge belts, heavy field shoes.
The Caribbean was so deep blue it hurt the eyes. You could look
straight down into it until it made you dizzy. Sharks, some of them
monsters, congregated from all directions.

Marines waiting to debark shouted derisively at the sharks; but it was
noticeable that they didn't pull any funny business on the slings,
and they didn't let go of the slings until their feet were firmly
planted in the bottom of the landing craft. The landing craft scarcely
rose and fell. The Caribbean was as smooth as an inland lake. I think,
now that I look back, that all of us had a strange feeling that
something unusual was going to happen, and that it had nothing to do
with the sharks.

I was first aboard a landing craft. I moved to the outboard side of
my craft and looked toward the half-moon beach where the Yataritas
empties into the Caribbean. The river's mouth was hidden by the sandy
beach. To my right the coast of Cuba, rugged, dirty coral cliffs ten
to fifty feet high, led away eastward, bulging out gradually a mile
south of the white-sandy beach. To my left there were broken cliffs of
rotting coral, and slopes leading up gradually from the shore to cactus
and spined-brush-covered hills so round they cast no shadows.

Captain Ross Haggerty crawled down into the second LCVP, First
Lieutenant Peter Hoose into the third. There were twenty-four men with
each of us, some veterans of two wars, some recruits who'd been too
young for World War II.

We were going in with Haggerty to my right rear, Hoose to my left rear.
We were equipped with the latest in ship-shore-landing-craft-airplane
communications. Four jet planes did fancy stuff over us, over the
beach, and behind the beach, while we got into our places. I could talk
with anybody in any LCVP, aboard the _Odyssey_ or in any one of the
jets. Our headsets made us look like men from Mars.

Every man who was participating in this maneuver wore one of the sets,
for experience had taught that any marine, at any time, might find
himself running the show.

There were flecks of foam about the reefs which flanked the half-moon
beach when all three LCVP's rose on their steps like amphibians ready
to take off, and headed north for the beach, so white it dazzled the
eyes. Behind the beach lay the spined brush wherein, theoretically,
enemy troops were lying in wait to rip us apart.

I always thrilled to a landing, even a make-believe one. So did the
men, boring though peacetime soldiering was. The APD was dropping dud
shells ashore. The jets were diving on us, just to make a noise, and
our three motors sounded like the crack of doom. The men kept down
because that was the rule, but occasionally I pulled myself up and
looked ahead over the ramp--which would come crashing down when we
rammed our nose into the sand. Out over that ramp the marines would
charge, to race for cover and swing into position to give our new
weapons a workout.

We'd be in in five minutes. The boat-handlers were talking to the ship
and the jets. I just listened in. I didn't see or hear a thing out of
the ordinary.

"Stand by!" came the cry. "We're smacking in a coupla seconds!"

The jets were having fun right over the beach and for a moment I envied
their pilots. When we got ashore it was going to be like sitting atop
a burning galley stove, on that sand. It would be even worse under the
brush on the land beyond that rose to the hills and the coral cliffs
which crowned them.

The other two LCVP's had drawn abreast now. We hit the beach nearly
together. I heard the rasping of the chains as the ramps went down,
hitting the sand. There was knee-deep water over the outer ends of the
ramps. The marines dashed ashore. The first odd thing happened then;
one instant there was water over the ends of the ramps, then there was
none.

As a matter of habit every marine did his job. Without command,
they sprayed out to right and left, getting unbunched as quickly as
possible, just in case a theoretical enemy projectile should land among
them.

But their deployment slowed and came to a halt. I think they, like
myself, must instantly have missed the racketing of the jets. I looked
up. The sky, a pale blue, with slowly moving clouds in which I was
aware of greenish tints, was utterly empty of the four jets which were
supposed to support our maneuver.

I whirled and looked back. Where the Caribbean had been there was a
huge sprawl of desert, blinding in the midday sun, stretching away
southward to a semicircle of brooding hills. I judged their crests to
be at least four thousand feet high. And where those crests were, five
minutes before, the Caribbean had been--fully a mile deep under the
stern of the _Odyssey_! Where the _Odyssey_ might now be I hadn't the
slightest idea.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the conflict. The author achieves these goals by describing the Marines' preparations for landing, the strange feeling that something unusual is about to happen, and the sudden disappearance of the Caribbean Sea.