Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"Well," Amy sighed, "we had all the excitement of racing with a shark,
even if the shark was only in our minds. I'll never be so scared by one
again."

"Goodness!" exclaimed Jessie. "I know I shall always be nervous in the
water here after this. I'll always be looking for one. What an awful
feeling it is to try to swim when one is being pursued by----"

"By a pair of swimming wings," chuckled Burd. "Some imagination you've
got, my dear Jess."

There was a serious side to the matter, however. Although the shark
scare had proved to be groundless, the quartette decided to say nothing
about it to those ashore.

"Especially to Momsy," Jessie Norwood said. "I don't want to make her
nervous. Little things annoy her."

"She'll be some annoyed by little Hen, then," chuckled Amy. "Hen is
worse than any shark you ever saw."

"How terrible!" cried Jessie. "She is not a bad child at all, but she
is wild enough."

When they swam ashore later they found Henrietta on her good behavior
with Momsy. Nobody on the sands had chanced to see the excitement out
by the raft. Or, if they had, it was merely supposed that the four
young people from Roselawn were playing in the water.

Jessie, however, felt rather serious about it. And she knew she would
never go into the sea again at Station Island without thinking about
sharks.

While they were playing hand-ball on the beach, still in their bathing
suits, a low-wheeled pony carriage came along the drive from the upper
end of the island, and Amy's sharp eyes spied and recognized the two
girls seated on the back seat of the vehicle.

"And that's Bill Brewster driving!" cried Amy. "Some difference between
the speed of that quadruped and his sports car."

"One thing sure," chuckled Burd. "He can't do so much damage with that
old Dobbin as he did with the car he drives about New Melford."

"Belle and Sally have got a hen on," said the slangy Amy to Jessie.
"See them whispering together?"

"I can see what they are up to from right where I stand," announced
Darry, dropping the ball. "Come on, Burd! Let's beat it for the raft
again. That's one place those two girls can't follow us without bathing
suits."

"He, he!" giggled his sister. "I hope they sit right down here and wait
for you to come ashore."

"Send out our supper by the lifeguard," called Burd, as he followed his
chum into the surf. "We fear sharks less than we do a certain brand of
featherless biped."

"I suppose it would be too pointed for us to run away," said Amy to
Jessie, as Bill Brewster drove the pony carriage out on to the beach.

"Belle has got her eye on us, that is a fact," agreed Jessie.

She was curious, especially after what their new friend had told them
an hour before about the story that Belle Ringold was circulating.
Belle was eager to talk--as she always was.

"So your folks got one of these bungalows, did they, after all, Jess
Norwood?" she began. "I suppose you know there is no surety that you
can keep it a month?"

"I don't know about that. I guess father attended to the lease. And he
is a lawyer, you know," said Jessie, quietly.

"Pooh! Yes," said Belle, tossing her head. "But there are lawyers and
lawyers! My father has the smartest lawyer in New York working for
him. And I suppose you know about the claim he has against all the
middle of this island?"

"We have heard that _you_ have a claim on the island--or think you
have," said Amy slyly. "But, then, Belle, you always did think you
owned the earth."

"Now, Miss Smartie, don't be too funny! Father is going to prove his
right to the golf course and all these bungalows. Don't you fear--Why!
There's that terrible Henrietta Haney! How did she come here?"

"She is with us," said Jessie shortly.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is light and humorous. There is a bit of tension between the characters, but overall the tone is playful. The point of view is third person limited, focused on the characters of Jessie, Amy, and Belle.