What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
As things got more settled down, and years flew by, the system of
working the whole station was greatly improved.  Bob and Harry had
become quite the home-farmers and agriculturists, while the cattle
partially, and the sheep almost wholly, became the care of Archie,
with Gentleman Craig as his first officer.

Craig certainly had a long head on his broad shoulders.  He did not
hesitate from the first to give his opinions as to the management of
the station.  One thing he assured the three friends of: namely, that
the sheep must be sent farther north and west if they were to do well.

"They want higher and dryer ground," he said; "but you may try them
here."

I think at this time neither Bob nor Archie knew there was anything
more deadly to be dreaded than foot-rot, which the constant attention
of the shepherds and a due allowance of blue-stone, served out from
Harry's stores, kept well under.

They gained other and sadder experience before very long, however.

At first all went as merrily as marriage bells.  The first
sheep-shearing was a never-to-be-forgotten event in the life of our
Bushmen.

The season was October--a spring month in Australia--and the fleeces
were in fine form, albeit some were rather full of grass seed.  They
were mostly open, however, and everyone augured a good clip.

Sarah was very busy indoors superintending everything; for there was
extra cooking to be done now.  Wee Diana, who had developed into
quite a Bush child, though a pretty one, toddled about here, there,
and everywhere; the only wonder is--as an Irishman might say--that
she did not get killed three or four times a day.  Diana had long
since abjured gumrings and rattles, and taken to hoops and whips.
One of the collie dogs, and the pet kangaroo, were her constant
companions.  As previously stated, both collies had been sent to
Craig to be trained; but as Bounce had a difference of opinion with
one of the shepherds, he concluded he would make a change by the way
of bettering himself, so he had taken French leave and come home to
the steading.  He would have been sent off again, sure enough, if he
had not--collie-like--enlisted Sarah herself on his behalf.  This he
had done by lying down beside little Diana on the kitchen floor.  The
two kissed each other and fell asleep.  Bounce's position was assured
after that.

Findlayson, who did not mean to commence operations among his own
fleeces for another month, paid a visit to Burley, and brought with
him a few spare hands.  Harry had plenty to do both out of doors and
in his stores; for many men were now about the place, and they must
all eat and smoke.

"As sure as a gun," said Findlayson the first morning, "that
Joukie-daidles o' yours 'ill get killed."

He said this just after about three hundred sheep had rushed the
child, and run over her.  It was the fault of the kangaroo on one
hand, and the collie, Bounce, on the other.  Findlayson had picked
her off the ground, out of a cloud of dust, very dirty, but smiling.

"What is to be done with her?" said Bob, scratching his head.

"Fauld her," said Findlayson.

"What does that mean?"

Findlayson showed him what "faulding" meant.  He speedily put up a
little enclosure on an eminence, from which Diana could see all
without the possibility of escaping.  So every day she, with her dog
and the pet kangaroo, to say nothing of a barrow-load of toys,
including a huge Noah's ark, found herself happy and out of harm's
way.  Diana could be seen at times leaning over the hurdle, and
waving a hand exultingly in the air, and it was presumed she was
loudly cheering the men's performance; but as to hearing anything,
that seemed utterly out of the question, with the baa-ing and maa-ing
of the sheep.

When the work was in full blast it certainly was a strange sight, and
quite colonial.  Archie had been at sheep-shearings before at home
among the Cheviot Hills, but nothing to compare to this.

There was, first and foremost, the sheep to be brought up in batches
or flocks from the distant stations, men and dogs also having plenty
to do to keep them together, then the enclosing them near the
washing-ground.  The dam in which the washing took place was lucidly
well filled, for rain had fallen not long before.  Sheep-washing is
hard work, as anyone will testify who has tried his hand at it for
even half a day.  Sheep are sometimes exceedingly stupid, more
particularly, I think, about a time like this.  The whole business is
objected to, and they appear imbued with the idea that you mean to
drown them, and put every obstacle in your way a stubborn nature can
invent.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the reader how the sheep-shearing operation was conducted in the early days of the Australian colony. The author also shows how the collie dog, Bounce, became the pet of the family.