Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
I traveled about four points north of the northeast group. I am a fast
walker; even through sand I can travel faster than most men. I was
slightly ahead of all the other groups when suddenly I could go no
further. I could feel nothing, yet when I put out my foot to set it
down in a new place, it struck an invisible something, dropped back,
and my impetus carried me forward to involve my face in something much
finer than cobwebs.

I jumped back, swearing, for I could see nothing except the hot waste
of glistening sand. There were dunes, hummocks with strange grasses and
brush sticking up through them like beards; but I had struck the limit
of my trek and could not reach any of those visible spots beyond.

I pushed against it with my hands. It gave, but only as a taut wire net
might give, then press back against the hands; it was a strain to make
the thing bulge. The counterpressure was strong. I could not advance.
I turned to the right and saw that the nearest patrol had stopped. The
two men were fumbling in the air like blind men. They were raising
and lowering their feet as if they felt for steps above an abyss.
They, too, had come to the end of possible advance. They had come into
contact with invisibility also--invisibility that was inflexibly tough
beyond a certain brief limit.

The two men turned now and looked at me. I gave the halt signal and
started toward them. I ran into something and caromed off, falling
to my knees. The horrible thought struck me that each group might
have stumbled inside some hideous globe and become separated from all
other groups. But it wasn't so. I got to my feet, put my left hand out
against the invisible wall--which felt warm to the touch, as if it were
a living thing--and started toward the northeast group.

The surface of that strange substance was undulant; it zig-zagged, like
the weaving walk of a drunken man.

I reached the first patrol, Corporal Hoge Ziegler and Private First
Class Barry Preble. Their faces were white. I wouldn't say they were
scared but they were definitely concerned.

"Well, at least we've discovered what it was we ran through at the
moment we hit the beach," I offered. "All we need to do is find a way
through it, and go on with our maneuver."

Ziegler shook his head. "No, sir, I don't see it like that. We can see
through this stuff, or seem to, but we can't see back the way we came,
astern of the landing craft."

"Right, corporal; what do you think it is, then?"

"I'm no scientist, sir. I'd say it is a net of some kind, in which we
have been caught, landing craft and all, like so many fish. But by
whom? By what? For what reason? It has me stopped."

"I wonder--" began Preble, then stopped, staring at the place where he
and Ziegler had come to a dead stop. Preble stepped back. In his arms
he cradled one of the latest automatic weapons.

Preble stepped back, lifted the muzzle of the weapon, held down the
trigger for a few squirts. The weapon acted naturally enough. There was
no question that the bullets left the muzzle of the fast-firer. But we
didn't hear them hit the invisible screen; nor, looking beyond it, did
we see where the bullets kicked up sand. The bullets simply plunked
into nothingness as bullets of an obsolete day vanished into soap or
sand during firing tests.

A few seconds passed. Then there were soft sounds in the sand at the
very spot where the two marines had hit the wall. All three of us
looked down. The flattened, steel-jacketed bullets lay in a small group
in the sand, within a couple of inches of the invisible wall--on our
side of it.

"Caught the bullets, like a baseball catcher!" said Preble, his voice
high-pitched with threatened hysteria. "Then just dropped 'em! Took
them in, killed their speed, then slowly discarded them! And I saw the
wall do it!"

Ziegler and I had not seen this phenomenon, but we were not directly
behind the weapon, as Preble was.

I lifted my binoculars for the first time and looked around at the
other patrols, all of which I could see easily. All except those which
followed a southerly direction had come to the wall and were just as
puzzled by it as we. None of us had anything to offer; we were even
afraid to think lest we question our own sanity.

We held our ground until all patrols had come up against the invisible
wall. Then we had some idea of the extent of our prison. That brooding
mountain to the south, it appeared, was forbidden to us.

How high did the wall reach? Was it domed?


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-The protagonist is a nameless, fast-walking marine who is ahead of his group when he discovers the invisible wall.
-Corporal Hoge Ziegler is the first marine the protagonist encounters at the wall. He is a no-nonsense type who is quickly trying to figure out the situation.
-Private First Class Barry Preble is the second marine the protagonist encounters. He is more emotional than Ziegler and is quickly overwhelmed by the situation.