What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Fay turned a shoulder to them and started forward beyond the break of
the pilot and chart house. He heard voices raised in the smoking-room.
Pressing his face to the forward midship port-hole, he wiped the mist
from the glass and peered in.

Three men sat about a table upon which was a scattering of silver and
gold. At their elbows glasses perched. In their hands were cards. They
swung with the ship, lunged toward each other, and straightened like
dummies in a pantomime. They played their hands, and redealt. Fay
realized that a game of American stud was going on. He wiped the
port-glass and studied the three faces.

One was cockney with a great arching nose and a loose catfish mouth. He
wore a green cravat and a horsey pin. The second player was stout and
triple chinned. He might have been a Yorkshire horseman going across for
Holland mares. The third player, whose face was almost hidden by the
back of his head, interested Fay. There was that in the poise of the man
which brought back deep-sea memories when certain cliques haunted the
smoking-rooms of five-day boats.

This man wore a pair of smoked glasses.

Fay watched the tide of fortune through the port-hole. It was evident
that between the striking of the ships bell for three A.M. and
three-thirty A.M.six strokes and seventhe man with the glasses had
increased his pile of gold at the expense of the Yorkshire squire.

Keen-brained and trained to note appearances, Fay realized that the man
with the glasses had some percentage upon the game. He searched his
memory for the mans name. That head and the narrow sloping shoulders
were more than familiar. He decided to enter the smoking-room.

Rounding the bay of the break of the pilot-house and chart-room, and
passing under the dripping staunchions of the bridge, he clasped the
handle of a sliding door and pressed firmly.

A gust of mist and briny air drove through the welcome opening. Fay
entered and closed the door. He moved, not too swiftly, toward a lounge
where he could overlook the players, pressed a button on the cabin
furnishing, and threw open his coat with a relieved motion as he sat
down.

An under-steward came from aft and stared about the room. Fay leaned
over a little table, whispered hot Scotch and rubbed his hands from
which the oakum stains had almost been effaced.

He turned then, and stared point-blankly at the players. The man with
the glasses faced him. There was a scar on the chin. There was a firm
set to the mouth. There was that which told of a young man who had the
oldest face in the world. It was Broadway-trained and set to the wise
leer of an international swindler.

Um, thought Fay, crossing his leg and intensifying his stare. Ump!
he added under his breath. Thats an old friendAce-in-the-hole Harry.
No wonder the poor squire is being trimmed.

Fay shot a final glance and turned toward the under-steward, who held
the Scotch on a silver tray.

Taking the drink, he passed over a shilling and a sixpence, set the
glass down, and started making tiny circles on the table with his finger
nail.

Last time I saw him, he reflected, was at Jimmys. Time before
that, was in Cairoat Shepherds. And the time before Shepherds was on
a Cape boatthe Kenilworth Castlewhere he was trimming gulls by the
ancient and honorable game of dealing seconds.

Fay divined with professional intuition that the fish-mouthed cockney
was Harrys partner, although their voices were raised in angry
recriminations.

He sipped at the Scotch, then rose and watched the game from a leaning
position at the end of the lounge. The sharper dealt without apparent
manipulation. His hands spread over the card, lifted a corner, then
reached for the deck as the Yorkshire squire tossed a sovereign upon the
table.

Fay watched the deal. The light was glaring. The eyes behind the smoked
glasses flashed, then centered on the gold piece. The game went on with
more gold entering the pot. The show-down, where the sharper won,
revealed the fact that the Yorkshire squire had a queen in the hole and
the dealer had a king. It was that close!

Fay felt inclined to whistle. He was interested enough to watch other
deals which all seemed set and regular. Ace-in-the-hole Harry had solved
mind-reading, concluded the cracksman, as he sat down on the lounge and
revolved the problem in his mind.

The game closed suddenly. The Yorkshire squire rose, glared at the two
players, then stamped out through the door and went aft with a string of
oaths falling behind him, like chips from a whittler.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the character of Ace-in-the-hole Harry, a professional gambler and card sharp. The author uses this scene to establish Harry's skills and to set up the conflict that will occur later in the story when the protagonist, Fay, tries to take on Harry at his own game.