Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
"O-BE-JOYFUL" HENRIETTA


Jessie Norwood, gaily excited, came bounding into her sitting room
waving a slit envelope over her sunny head, her face alight. She wore a
pretty silk slip-on, a sports skirt, and silk hose and oxfords that her
chum, Amy Drew, pronounced "the very swellest of the swell."

Beside Amy in the sitting room was Nell Stanley, busy with sewing
in her lap. The two visitors looked up in some surprise at Jessie's
boisterous entrance, for usually she was the demurest of creatures.

"What's happened to the family now, Jess?" asked Amy, tossing back her
hair. "Who has written you a billet-doux?"

"Nobody has written to me," confessed Jessie. "But just think, girls!
Here is another five dollars by mail for the hospital fund."

Jessie had been acting as her mother's secretary of late, and Mrs.
Norwood was at the head of the committee that had in charge the raising
of the foundation fund for the New Melford Women's and Children's
Hospital.

"That radio concert panned out wonderfully," Amy said. "If I'd done it
all myself it could have been no better," and she grinned elfishly.

"We did a lot to help," said Nell seriously. "And I think it was just
wonderful, our singing into the broadcasting horns."

"This five dollars," said Jessie, soberly, "was contributed by
girls who earned the money themselves for the hospital. That is why
I am saving the envelope and letter. I am going to write them and
congratulate them for mother, when I get time."

"Never was such a success as that radio concert," Amy said proudly. "I
have received no public resolution of thanks for suggesting it----"

"I am not sure that you suggested it any more than the rest of us,"
laughed Jessie.

"I like that!"

"I feel that I had a share in it. The Reverend says it was the most
successful money-raising affair he ever had anything to do with,"
laughed Nell. "And he, as a minister, has had a broad experience." The
motherless Nell Stanley, young as she was, was the very efficient head
of the household in the parsonage. She always spoke affectionately of
her father as "the Reverend."

"Yes. It is a week now, and the money continues to come in," Jessie
agreed. "But now that the excitement is over----"

"We should look for more excitement," said Amy promptly. "Excitement is
the breath of Life. Peace is stagnation. The world moves, and all that.
If we get into a rut we are soon ready for the Old Lady's Home over
beyond Chester."

"I'm sure," returned Jessie, a little hotly, "we are always doing
something, Amy. We do not stagnate."

"Sure!" scoffed her chum, in continued vigor of speech. "We go swizzing
along like a snail! 'Fast' is the name for us--tied _fast_ to a post.
Molasses running up hill in January is about our natural pace here in
Roselawn."

Nell burst into gay laughter. "Go on! Keep it up! Your metaphors are
wonderfully apt, Miss Drew. Do tell us what we are to do to get into
high and show a little speed?"

"Well, now, for instance," said Amy promptly, her face glowing suddenly
with excitement, "I have been waiting for somebody to suggest what we
are going to do the rest of the summer. But thus far nobody has said a
thing about it."

"Well, Reverend has his vacation next month. You know that," said Nell
slowly and quite seriously. "It is a problem how we can all go away.
And I am not sure that it is right that we should all tag after him. He
ought to have a rest from Fred and Bob and Sally and me."

Jessie smiled at the minister's daughter appreciatively. "I wonder if
_you_ ought not to have a rest away from the family, Nell?"

"Hear! Hear!" cried Amy Drew.

"Don't be foolish," laughed Nell Stanley. "I should worry my head off
if I did not have Sally with me, anyway. I think we'd better go up to
the farm where we went last year."

"'Farm' doesn't spell anything for me," said Amy, tossing her head.
"Cows and crickets, horses and grasshoppers, haystacks and hicks!"


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Jessie Norwood is excited because she has received a five dollar donation for the hospital fund she is helping to raise money for. Her friends Amy Drew and Nell Stanley are with her in her sitting room and they are all discussing the recent success of the radio concert they put on to raise money. Amy is proud of the success and takes credit for suggesting the concert, while Nell is more humble, saying that they all contributed and it was a joint effort. Jessie agrees that it was a successful event, but points out that the excitement is over and they need to find something else to do to keep from getting bored.
Amy immediately suggests that they find something else exciting to do for the rest of the summer. Nell suggests that they go up to the farm where they went last year, but Amy is not enthusiastic about the idea, calling it boring. Jessie suggests that maybe Nell should have a break from her family and take a vacation without them, but Nell is not sure that is the right thing to do. They continue to discuss their options for the summer when Jessie's mother comes in and asks what they are talking about.