What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"And Darry spent more than a year aboard a destroyer and was trained to
'listen in' for submarines and all that!"

"An entirely different thing from knowing how to rig wireless,"
commented Jessie, getting down on her knees to look under the shelf to
which the posts were screwed. "Oh, dear!" she added, as she bumped her
head. "I wish this boat wouldn't pitch so."

"So say we all of us. What can I do, Jess?"

"Not a thing--for a moment. Let me see: The general rules of radio are
easily remembered. The incoming oscillations that have been intercepted
by the antenna above the roof of the house are applied across the grid
and filament of the detector tube----"

"That's this jigger here," put in Amy, as Jessie struggled up again.

"Yes. That is the tube. Through the relay action of the tube, an
amplified current flows through the plate circuit--_here_. Now," added
Jessie thoughtfully, "if we couple this plate circuit back--No! This
is a simple circuit. It is like our old one, Amy. We can't get much
action out of this set. It is not like the new one we are putting in
the bungalow."

"Well, the thing is, can we use it?" Amy demanded. "Can you link the
power, or whatever you call it, up with the sending paraphernalia and
get an S O S over the water?"

"Goodness, Amy! don't talk as though you thought we were really in
danger."

"Humph! I see the Reverend, as Nell calls him, out there with his coat
off, in his shirt-sleeves, taking a turn with Burd at the pumps. They
have rigged it for man power and are saving steam for the engines."

"Let me see!" cried Jessie, peering out of the clouded window too.
"You'd never think he was a minister. Isn't he nice?"

Amy began to laugh. "Are all ministers supposed to be such terrible
people?"

"No-o," admitted Jessie, going back to the radio set. "But good as they
usually are, we have the very best minister at the Roselawn Church, of
any."

"Yep. So we must plan to save him if anything happens," giggled Amy.

"Let's open the switch and see if we can get anything," her chum said
reflectively, picking up the head harness.

"You mean _hear_ if we can get anything," corrected Amy.

"Never mind splitting hairs, my dear. Is that the switch? Yes. Now!"

She put on the rigging, but all she got out of the air, as she sadly
confessed, were sounds like an angry cat spitting at a puppydog.

"It isn't just static," she told Amy. "You try it. There is something
absolutely wrong with this thing. See! We don't get a spark."

"If we did we couldn't read the letters."

"I believe I could read some Morse if it came slowly enough," said
Jessie, nodding. "But it is sending, not receiving, I am thinking of,
Amy Drew."

Amy began to look more serious. Jessie was harping on a possibility she
did not wish to admit was probable. She went out and, hunting up Darry,
demanded to know just how bad he thought they were off, anyway.

"Well, Sis, there is no use making a wry face about it," the collegian
said. "But you see how hard the Reverend and Burd are working, and
they can't keep ahead of the water. The poor old _Marigold_ really is
leaking."

"Is she going to sink? Can't we get to land--somewhere? Can't we go
back to the island?"

"Shucks, Sis! You know we are miles from Station Island. We are off
Montauk--or we were this morning. But we are heading out to sea
now--sou'-sou'east. Can't head into this gale. She pitches too much."

"And--and isn't there any help for us, Darry Drew?"

"We don't need any help yet, do we?" he demanded pluckily. "She is
making good weather of it----"

Just then the yacht rolled so that he had to grab the rail with one
hand and Amy with the other, and both of them were well shaken up.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the conflict and tension in the story. The characters are stranded on a boat in a storm, and they are trying to figure out how to use the radio to send for help. There is also a subplot involving the minister and whether or not he is a good person.