Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
X


THE RIFT WIDENS

ACROSS the breakfast table next morning Rowan faced a hostile young
stranger. The gay comrade who was so dear to him, the eager, impulsive
girl all fire and flame and dewy softness, had vanished to give place to
a cold and flinty critic. Abruptly and without notice she had withdrawn
her friendship. Why? Was it that she had grown tired of him and what he
had to offer? Or had he done something to displease her?

Manlike, he tried gifts.

Ive decided to have that conservatory built for you off the living
room as soon as I can get the glass. Better draw up your plans right
away.

Ive changed my mind. I dont want it.

Her voice was like icy water.

Im sorry, he said gently, and presently he finished his breakfast and
left the room.

Ruth bit her lip and looked out of the window. Tears began to film her
eyes. She went to her room, locked the door, and flung herself down on
the bed in a passion of weeping.

Ever since the first days of her acquaintance with Rowan she had known
the story of how Norma Davis had jilted him. Mrs. Flanders, of the Dude
Ranch, was a gossip by nature and had told Ruth the history of the
affair with gusto. The girl had been merely interested. She had had too
many transient affairs herself to object to any dead and buried ones of
Rowan. But yesterday afternoon she had ridden over to the summer resort
and asked Mrs. Flanders some insistent questions. The mistress of the
Dude Ranch was a reluctant witness, but a damning one. It was true that
Mrs. Tait had run away with McCoy in his car and that they had taken the
train together. There were witnesses to prove that he had paid for the
sleeper berth she used and that it was in his name. For once Joe Tait
had told the truth.

The thing which hit Ruth like a sudden slap in the face from a friend
was that this escapade had taken place while McCoy had been on his way
to marry her. It was not an episode of the past, but a poisonous canker
that ate into the joy of her life. If he could do a thing so vile there
was no truth in him.

All the golden hours they had spent together were tainted by his
infidelity. Never in all her life had she met a man who had seemed so
genuine, so wholly true. She had offered him her friendship and love,
had given her young life into his keeping. His reverence for her had
touched her deeply. Now she knew there was nothing but hypocrisy to it.

She must leave him, of course. She must crawl away like a wounded wild
creature of the forest and suffer her hurts alone. The sooner she left
the better.

On the very heel of this resolution came Mrs. Stovall with bad news
about their patient.

His fevers mighty high. Looks like someone will have to nurse that boy
regular for quite a while, she said.

Ill look after himanyhow till the doctor comes, Ruth volunteered in
swift compunction because she had not been in to see him that morning.

Hmp! Been crying her eyes out. Whats _she_ got to worry aboutwith
the best man in the Fryingpan country crazy about her? wondered the
housekeeper. Trouble with her is that Rowans too good to her. She
needs to bump up against real grief before shell know how well off she
is.

Once installed in the sick room, Ruth did not find it easy to get away.
For three days Silcott needed pretty constant attention. After the
delirium had passed he lay and watched her, too weak to wait upon
himself.

Youll not leave me, he whispered to her once, and there was something
so helpless and boyish about his dependence upon her that Ruth felt a
queer little lump in her throat. Just now at least there could be no
doubt of the genuineness of _his_ need of her.

Not till youre better, she promised.

And if there were tears in her eyes they were less for him than for
herself. She was thinking of another man who had told her how greatly he
needed her and how her coming had filled his life with sunshine, of
another man whose whole relation to her had been a lie.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by a tone of bitterness and anger, as well as a sense of betrayal. The point of view is from Ruth's perspective, and the events are related in a chronological order.