What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XXIV

THE END OF A TALE

All that weeping night of rain Rob travelled towards Glen Lyon glad
for every foot of heather between him and the weird house upon the
loch.  Passing through the country of the Mackenzies he reached
Killin, and there fell in with a band of gipsies sitting round their
camp fire.  They numbered about a score--men, women, and little brown
children--and they welcomed him to share their meat in the kindliest
manner, asking no questions and displaying no curiosity in his
affairs.  Only the chief knew Gaelic, and he was all the more ready
to hear the news of the north from Rob, who gathered that his
affection for the red-coats was by no means warm.

Rob accepted his kindness with a qualm of self reproach.  It had
suddenly occurred to him that in accepting such a wealth of
hospitality he was endangering them to the vengeance of the
Government.  Such a prospect was not to be contemplated.

"Let me speak to you alone," he said to the chief.

In the privacy of the tent he told him all.

"I will not attempt to deny," said he, "that there are those who
would give much to capture me, not for any importance I may have, but
because of another...."

The gipsy followed his words with expressionless attention.  Then
rising he drew a paper from his pocket.

"Read," he said simply.

It was a Government notice for posting up under gibbets and suchlike,
intimating that anyone who laid one, Rob Fraser, by the heels, dead
or alive, would receive a reward of fifty pounds.  Rob turned cold at
the dreadful wording of it.  It described him minutely, and went on
to say that he was last seen with the notorious rebel called "Muckle
John."

"You knew?" said he at last.

The other laughed softly.

"What does it matter?" he replied, "but I thank you for your
confidence, and when next you see Muckle John say that Gloom the
Gipsy has not forgotten him."

"Are you a friend of Muckle John?"

"I may be counted such, though he has no lack of friends--or enemies."

"But I cannot imperil your people, it is more than is reasonable."

"Rob Fraser," said Gloom very gravely, "you are as good as taken.
The soldiers are watching for you on the Highland Line, and from here
to Stirling is alive with spies.  To-morrow we will carry you through
Balquhidder, for if you fell foul of the wild caterans there it would
be a short shift for you."

"Balquhidder--I have heard the name...."

He laughed outright at that.

"It's clear ye are north country bred," he said, "there are more
thieves Balquhidder way than in Lochaber itself."

Thankful indeed for his good fortune Rob bade his friend good-night,
and lying down before the fire was soon fast asleep.

With the dawn they were marching towards Crianlarich where they took
to the heather, and crossing the hills came down upon Loch Doine at
the head of Balquhidder.  As they streamed into the flat country at
the top of the loch they passed a square thatched house at the foot
of the slope facing the amber stream.

"That is Inverlochlarig where Rob Roy died," said Gloom.  "I mind him
well, a great red man with a heart of gold.  But his sons are
corbies, and I am hoping we do not meet them."

All up the side of the stream the cottages of the Macgregors
clustered, with the thin veil of peat reek hanging above them in a
kind of haze.

Without halting they passed over the flat marshy land that lay
between the two ranges of mountain, and approached a small compactly
built house upon the other side of the burn.

"We will stop here for the night," said Gloom, "and maybe Invernenty
will see us.  He is no friend of the Macgregors, being son of John
Maclaren who was murdered by Robin Oig."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the main character. The author achieves this by describing the landscape and the gipsy camp, and by introducing Rob Fraser.