Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
"You mustn't break a man's leg if you don't want to marry him. I need
hardly tell you the sequel. Creatures like myself are bound by their
actions only, and my wildness had committed me to something which the
will of all the Kaisers in the world could not have brought about.

"There was a most sensational scene when I returned on the bay, followed
by Taras-Bulba with his Grand Duke tied on to him. The hunt was stopped.
They all came crowding round us. I had to tell the whole story and made
a point of being as brief as possible, as one does with things of which
one isn't too proud. But the injured man filled in the details. His
fever made him eloquent and transformed me into a heroine. I had to put
up with the congratulations of the whole Court.

"The Kaiser, who magnifies and distorts everything, cried out:

"'What a splendid girl she is--to save her fianc's life the very first
day!'

"The Empress kissed me. It's a family mania. My father was radiant.

"'My compliments to Your Majesty,' he whispered in my ear.

"I was angry, though amused, and vented my rage on Taras-Bulba, who had
more whip as we went back to the palace than he's ever had since.

"I have one good quality. I like to know exactly where I stand. I
realized that, largely by my own fault, I had put myself in a position
from which there was no escape without one of those scandals which any
princess, worthy of the name, hates more than the certainty of her own
unhappiness. So I decided to acquaint my 'fianc,' as the Court already
styled him, with my conditions that very evening.

"I asked him to receive me, and he complied at once, after sending out
the attendant who was arranging the cage over his leg.

"When we were alone, this is more or less what I said:

"'My action in coming here will possibly astonish you, sir. But I am,
and always shall be, in the habit of doing what I think advisable
without undue concern for mere decorum. Now I think it is of the highest
importance than you should know _this_:

"'I came to Petersburg to be with my father, to witness some splendid
celebrations and enjoy myself generally--not to find a husband. As
regards husbands, you will do me the honour to believe that I have
refused as many as there are provinces in Russia. The last was a Persian
prince, who possesses a mountain in which emeralds are as plentiful as
truffles in Prigord--and even larger.

"'Well, I came here, and I don't know what has come over everybody, but,
apparently, I must be married. I don't put it that way to offend you.
After all, sir, we hadn't set eyes on each other until three days ago.

"'However that may be, I'm practically bound to marry you. The
circumstances are too strong for mere individuals like you and me. In
our history there are four emperors and empresses, several crowns, and,
no doubt, enormous fortunes. I am sure that Papa would fall ill if I
didn't become a queen, now that he's seen there's a chance. But, above
all, I have broken your leg.'

"He made an impatient movement: 'Don't speak of that.'

"'I _must_ speak of it. I tell you frankly that it is this accident, for
which I am responsible, that has constrained me to accept something
which I would not allow even to be mentioned only yesterday. It is this
mishap which enables me to think that my marriage will not be absolutely
a political affair--a thought which is very pleasing to a girl like me.'

"'I'd rather have the other leg broken, and both arms, too,' he said in
his gentle, melancholy way, 'than hear you use that terrible expression,
"political affair."'

"'I'm sure you would,' I replied, unmoved. 'I agree to be your wife. But
you will not misunderstand me if I make one or two trifling
stipulations.'

"'Tell me, tell me,' he said with some emphasis. 'You know that
everything you may ask is granted beforehand.'

"'Oh! Oh!' I laughed. 'You may find in a minute that you've been just a
little hasty. Well, dear friend' (I laid some stress on that word),
'from my childhood I have always enjoyed the most perfect liberty, and I
don't intend to be deprived of it when I marry. It must be clearly
understood that nothing is to be changed, nothing, you understand.'

"'How could you think it of me!'

"'Don't let us have any misunderstanding as to the meaning of words,' I
said. 'Please realize that it is not a child, nor yet a woman, who is
speaking, and understand that my stipulation, the expression of an
unshakable resolve, is that our union is to be a relation of friendship,
excluding everything else.'


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

- protagonist: a young woman who is being forced into an arranged marriage with a man she doesn't know
- the man she is being forced to marry: a Grand Duke who is injured and being cared for in a palace
- the Kaiser: the emperor of the protagonist's country
- the Empress: the empress of the protagonist's country
- the protagonist's father: a man who is eager for his daughter to marry the Duke