Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"That's Rob sure enough.  Where has he been since he left Lochaber?"

"He was captured and laid in Fort Augustus, but he has escaped and is
now Glenmoriston way."

"Glenmoriston is a far cry," said Cameron.  "Did he send no word
beside this?"

"He said, 'There's a muirfowl snared,' though I did not take his
meaning."

"He said that?" said Cameron in a sharp voice.  Then turning to
Murray he grasped his arm.  "Ye hear that?" he cried.  "It's Rob
right enough, and the Prince with him."  He snatched up the letter
again.  "Gold," he repeated, and back came the frown.  "No," he said
under his breath, "I'll take no gold.  I seem to scent treachery in
the word gold.  What need has the Prince with such?  It's something
mair substantial he'll require.  Murray," he broke off, "how much
have ye upon you?"

"A hundred louis d'or--nae mair," said he.  "But tak' it,
Archie--only leave me ten for my ain needs."

The coins again changed hands and Cameron again addressed Grant.

"What other news do ye bring?" he asked.

"There is word," Grant replied, "that the soldiers are moving south."

He took to rummaging again in his shirt and drew out a piece of
tartan--a tangled, stained fragment about the size of a man's hand.

"One who shall be nameless," said he, "has ordered me to give this to
Murray of Broughton, begging him to put it into Lovat's own hands."

"It is a warning," gasped Cameron, "he says they are moving south."

Murray showed no relish for the business.

"I have no wish to speak with Lovat," he replied, "I am the last man
from whom he would take such a message."

"Tuts, Broughton," said Cameron impatiently, "at a time like this
private misunderstandings are out of the question--ye may save him
from the scaffold."

"I would," retorted Murray sourly, "I could bring him to it.  But
give me the rubbish, I'll see he receives it, though it's poor thanks
I'll get."

"You misjudge him, man--he's dour but he's old.  This man here has
brought it from the Prince belike, who else?" he swung round on the
messenger of Muckle John, "you are a Jacobite I take it?" he asked.

The man shook his head.

"I am a Jacobite where my ain race are concerned," he replied, at
which Cameron regarded him gravely, and seemed somewhat suspicious
and uncertain what to make of him.

Then turning to Murray he drew him outside the place, and they lay
about a dozen paces distant amongst the heather.

"Ye ken what this means, Murray?" he said.  "There's some one must
warn Lovat.  It's the Prince has sent word--leastways, ye can tell
Lovat so, it will hearten the old man.  Should he be taken the
Highlands will lose heart.  Get him carried by night Badenoch way.
Could he win to Cluny's cage he would be as snug as a rat in a
hole--and no sic a bad simile, eh?"

"I'll go," said Murray, staring with tired eyes across the glen.

"I'm no taken with this fellow here," went on Cameron, looking over
his shoulder, "and yet what more can I want?  He carries the daft
words I gave to Rob just to impress him, and send him like a hare out
of Arkaig--he warns us for Lovat.  Oh, John, what can ye mak' o' it?"

For a long time the other continued to stare into empty space.  Then
turning his head slowly he let his tragic eyes rest on Cameron.

"I know he is no true man," he said, sombrely, "but how I know I
cannot tell you.  And yet he is no Government man--that I am sure.
So I give it up!"  His tone dropped into silence, and sighing heavily
he drew in his breath to cough.

"Then I will go," said Cameron abruptly.  "Good-bye, John; keep watch
for a French ship and send word when it shall come."

So shaking hands they parted without another word, never to meet
again.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its use of dialogue and its focus on the characters' emotions. The tone is tense and suspenseful, and the point of view is limited to what the characters can see and hear.