Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
But creeping onward he reached the place where the empty space lay,
and without a pause he stepped across, regained his balance and
disappeared round the corner.  At that a great yell of anger broke
out, and a sudden rush was made for the lowest rock, upon which half
a dozen men climbed and thence swarmed up within three feet of where
Muckle John stood, awaiting them.

At that he swung down upon them, and laying about him with his
claymore, cleared the stone and stood looking upon the crowd of his
enemies with great good-humour.  Growling sullen threats, they fell
back out of reach of his deadly sword, and so, setting his back
against the crag, he drew out his whistle and, placing the hilt of
his claymore between his legs, he broke into a Highland rant.

Now the story of that tune was one peculiarly obnoxious to the men
below, for it was written to commemorate a great clan battle, in
which the people of the West had not covered their name with glory.
He played it with grim relish, giving it such a sprightly measure,
that every note seemed a jeer and a bitter gibe at their kith and kin.

Indeed, so engrossed did he grow with his melody, that he did not
notice a man to his left pick up a great stone, and launch it like a
flash upon him.  Moreover, it was aimed with a deadly purpose, for it
took the claymore on the blade and sent it spinning over the edge
upon the earth below.

With a cry Muckle John leaped for the cleft.  The men below, with a
wild shout, swarmed up like hungry wolves upon the place he had
abandoned.

And then drawing his pistol and dirk, he fell upon his knees like a
wild-cat defending its lair with tooth and claw, and sent the first
man hurtling backwards with a bullet in his brain.

"Lochaber pig," he taunted, "it takes a dirk to make you squeal."

"Man without a tartan," they screamed back in Gaelic,
"landless--nameless one..."

"No name is better than a Lochaber name," he cried with a laugh,
driving them back for the third time.

But his position was desperate, for the long blades of his assailants
could reach him before he could reload, and his dirk was useless
except at close quarters.

Now beside him there was a rugged boulder of about three feet in
diameter, and no sooner had his eye rested on that, than he bent his
long arms around it, and pushing it to the edge rolled it over upon
the jeering faces within a few feet of his own, and without watching
the panic that it caused, he sprang upon the narrow cleft and began
to pass along the road that Rob had gone before.

But now things were very different.  Below him, a dozen men had
stones in their hands--behind him, those who had the courage were
already mounting the dead-strewn rock to follow him.

There was for all that a mocking twinkle in Muckle John's eyes, and
he whistled a bar of the tune he had played, and so, walking steadily
onward, reached the empty space.  It was that critical moment that
they had selected for their volley of stones, and indeed it would
have gone ill with anyone knocked off his balance at such a time.

But this Muckle John realized as much as they, and out of the corner
of his eye he had gauged their scheme to a nicety.  He made a step
forward, therefore, and a very quick fling back, which few could do
where there was not room for the feet to stand, ankle to ankle.  And
as the stones rattled upon the face of the rock instead of his own,
he crossed very coolly and passed on.

Foiled in that plan, they took to aiming at him indiscriminately, and
the dull thud upon his side and legs reached Rob up above.  Soon a
stone cut his face, and he must needs wipe the blood out of his eyes
to see his way, which delayed him and brought his pursuers (the few
who dared) the nearer.

But he crept on, nevertheless, and at last reached Rob, and supported
himself by the little broken tree.

"Oh, Rob, Rob," he gasped, "I nearly spoilt all.  Follow me, for
they'll turn the corner in a minute.  Once let us get back to the
top, Rob, and there's no going back," and he looked down upon the
heads of their pursuers with a meaning smile.

The last five yards were as hazardous as the rest, and more than once
Rob gave himself up for lost.  But each time Muckle John steadied him
and jested, and whistled a snatch of tune.

At last they scrambled upon level ground, and lay with bleeding
fingers and knees and all the strength gone out of them.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Muckle John: A large, strong man who is very skilled with a claymore. He is also a good shot with a pistol. He is very confident and has a quick wit.
2. The men below: A group of angry men who are trying to kill Muckle John. They are armed with stones and knives.
3. Rob: Muckle John's friend. He is smaller and not as strong as Muckle John. He is injured and needs help to get back to the top.