Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Now," said he at last, "is all clear?  Evan Grant, who is in the
stables of Fort Augustus, will see that the cart is ready.  When the
confusion is at its height he will put in the horse.  You, Donald
Chisholm, will lead the horses below the rampart during the night and
mind they do not whinny at the dawn.  There I will join you at
cock-crow and a boy with me that will serve our purpose.  He is like
enough to another I ken of to hoodwink a pack of red-coats.  Should
aught go wrong make for the hills, and turn the beasts loose.  Should
they be deceived as I know they will, lead them into bog-land and
scatter.  You understand?"

They all nodded their heads.

"This day week then, for I have other work till then.  Now go--but
leave the lad there to watch the glen."

Silently they crawled out of the cave-mouth, and were lost among the
neighbouring rocks.

Then, wrapping himself in his great-coat, Muckle John took the reed
from his pocket and began to play a Skye song that the oarsmen sing
for keeping time.  But soon he tired of that and played an old
Highland lament that is as full of sorrow as the hollow of the hills
with snow.  He played it in a heart-breaking fashion with an eye upon
the boy in the cave-mouth, who was a Macpherson and easily moved.
And when he saw the tears coursing down his brown cheeks he could not
but gulp too, partly through sympathy but most of all because of his
own grand playing.


It was now the month of May, and still Rob lay in his cell.  During
the past ten days every source of refined torture had been applied to
break down his silence.  Starved, beaten, threatened, he maintained a
stony front, until Strange in despair had left him to himself for two
whole days.  It was on the morning of the third day that he returned,
and Rob saw by the elation in his eyes that something had happened.
He could only guess that it meant another disaster to the hunted
Jacobites.

"Up, you dog!" he cried; "and hear the news.  What has your silence
earned you, do you think?  It has made you a traitor, Master Rob
Fraser--a name that your clan will revile for all time.  Ho, ho, ho!
Think of that now--there's fame for ye!  I'd give twenty guineas to
hear what Lovat says when he learns that he was betrayed by..."

"Stop!" cried Rob, "why should he believe such a lie?"

"Because we shall have to break it to him.  Otherwise he might guess
who is really telling secrets, Rob, and that would spoil all."

With a mournful groan, the boy covered his face with his hands.

"Why do you not kill me now?" he asked in a hopeless voice.

"Kill you?" echoed Strange.  "Man alive, there'd be poor sense in
that!  It is just because we will not hang ye that people will know
just why.  No, no, Rob.  You'll live like a fighting-cock, whether ye
like it or no."

"It will take more than you to find Lord Lovat," broke out Rob.

Strange shook his head gleefully.

"Shall I whisper where he lies hid?" he said.  "There's an island at
the foot of Arkaig, called Moror--am I no right?" and he shook with
silent laughter.

At that the floor beneath Rob's feet seemed to dance up and down, and
a great despair made him deaf to all that Strange said--deaf to the
shutting of the door--to the brooding silence that settled once again
upon his solitude.

When he opened his eyes the sun was sinking, and he was alone.  The
bitterness of the situation stunned him utterly.  How could anyone
deny that he had turned informer, especially when the report went
round that it was to save his life.  He thought he had valued his
neck; but now he knew there were things infinitely worse than death.
What would he not give now to have lured on Muckle John, and so won
his freedom by pretending he had the plan?

And as he brooded deeply, out of the twilight, like a bird's note
dropping into silence, came the soft music of a chanter.  With a cry
he started to his feet and listened.

Again it reached him--a thin bar of wistful melody, the sign of
Muckle John.

Snatching up his bonnet he waved it out of the narrow window, and at
that the whistle sounded for the last time far away, and died on the
wind.  Muckle John was ready.  Hastily Rob took out the file and
pistol, and laid them upon the floor.  There was little chance that
anyone would visit him again that night.  He had eight hours before
him to file through the bars of his cell, and conceal himself, just
before the dawn, upon the cart of hay below.  His chains he had
already filed nearly through, concealing the marks with mud scraped
off the damp floor of his cell.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Rob Fraser is a Jacobite prisoner who has been tortured for information. When his captor, Strange, returns, he tells Rob that he will be let go if he betrays the location of Lovat. Rob agrees, and is given a week. He uses the time to file through his chains and bars, and escape. At cock-crow, he meets Muckle John, who takes him to safety.