Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
XV

"A MUIRFOWL SNARED"

Now the man that Muckle John had sent speeding from the cave-mouth to
the south reached northern Lochaber, and halting in a place under a
rock, waited for the dawn.

Very slowly the wintry night began to grow more grey.  A cold wind
fluttered the beard of the watcher under the rock.  From the bleak
hill-side a dog-fox barked, and with the passing of night a stag
moved like a shadow up the brae and stood for a moment gazing
backward, silhouetted against the skyline.

And still the man waited, watching the track below him.  It must have
been about seven o'clock, and the sun barely risen, when down the
glen came two men walking very rapidly and saying no word to one
another.  Foremost came a short, strongly built man with a round,
genial countenance and shrewd blue eyes.  About four paces behind
again there limped and tottered a broken cadaverous figure, heavily
cloaked and yet coughing dismally in the bleak Highland air, and
leaning his weight upon a stick.

All the way down the glen they never exchanged a word; but once the
man who led the way halted, and drawing a flask from his pocket
handed it to his companion, who tilted it up and then broke into a
worse fit of coughing than before.

The messenger of Muckle John snug under the crag took them in with
one long, penetrating glance, but no expression of surprise or
triumph or relief crossed his face.  He regarded them, as he had
regarded the stag, with cold, inscrutable eyes.

Through the hanging mists they came, and when they had drawn level
with his place of concealment he uttered a forlorn cry--such as the
whaup sends falling over an empty moor.  Instantly the little man who
walked in front stopped in his stride, and sent his eyes sweeping the
skyline above his head.  But no whaup was there.  Then turning he
said a word to his companion, who only shook his head wearily, as
though all the whaups in Scotland might have cried themselves hoarse
for all he cared.

Presently the man under the rock whistled very softly.

"I hear ye, sir," said the short fellow, speaking in Gaelic but never
raising his head; "and who might ye be there, like a fox in his
earth?"

"It is Archibald Cameron I want," replied the messenger of Muckle
John.

At that the tall, cadaverous man seemed to bestir himself, and began
to speak in a low anxious tone to his companion, who cut him short,
however, with scant courtesy.

"What is it you want?" he cried, turning his head towards the hill.
"I am Archibald Cameron, and now your name, sir, and your business?"

"Will ye come up, Dr. Cameron?  You will find me beneath the round
rock ten paces from the burn."

"Come," said Cameron to the man with him; "there's maybe news of the
Prince."

"No news," sighed the other, "is better than bad news."

Then taking to the hill-side they reached the hidden place and crept
within.

It was a hole of about six feet by eight and three feet high, and
with the sickly smell of a fox's lair.

"A couthy bit corner," said Cameron to his companion, dropping into
broad Scots.  "What wad we do, Broughton, had we no siclike places as
this?"  Saying which he yawned and eyed the other mischievously.
"Man," he said, with twinkling eyes, "ye'd mak' a bonny scarecrow."

"Oh, have done!" broke out Murray of Broughton (for he it was) in a
shrill, peevish voice.  "What good can such filthy nooks and crannies
avail us?  I am like to die," he wailed on, and started coughing,
with his hands clutching his sides.  Already the Prince's secretary,
broken in health, haunted by the constant fear that the Chevalier
whom he loved sincerely was taken, oppressed also by his own danger,
was coming nearer day by day to his disgrace, driven onward by the
weakness of body and mind which may make of any man a coward in the
face of death.

His face was drawn with sickness and anxiety.  In his pale haunted
eyes there flickered a sleepless dread.  Murray had all the loyalty,
but none of the reckless temerity of the true adventurer.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. The messenger of Muckle John - a strong, silent type
2. Archibald Cameron - short, round, and genial
3. Dr. Cameron's companion - tall, cadaverous, and anxious