Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
The table was set with white cloth and shining silver that gleamed in
the light of the flickering dinner tapers. Sparkling wine glasses stood
in their proper places. The centerpiece was a bowl of fruit--but fruit
such as West had never seen before.

Cartwright tilted a chair and dumped a thing that had been sleeping
there onto the floor.

"Your place, Mr. West," he said.

The thing uncoiled itself and glared at West with an eye of fishy
hatred, purred with lusty venom and slithered out of sight.

Across the table Louis Nevin apologized. "The damn things keep sneaking
through all the time. I suppose, Mr. West, you have trouble with them,
too."

"We tried rat traps," said Cartwright, "but they were too smart for
that. So we get along with them the best we can."

West laughed to cover momentary confusion, but he found Nevin's eyes
upon him.

"Annabelle," he said, "is the only one that ever bothered me."

"You're lucky," Nevin told him. "They get to be pests. There is one of
them that insists on sleeping with me."

"Where's Belden?" Cartwright asked.

"He ate early," explained Nevin. "Said there were a few things he
wanted to get done. Asked to be excused."

He said to West, "James Belden. Perhaps you've heard of him."

West nodded.

He pulled back his chair, started to sit down, then jerked erect.

A woman had appeared in the doorway, a woman with violet eyes and
platinum hair and wrapped in an ermine opera cloak. She moved forward
and the light from the flaring tapers fell across her face. West
stiffened at the sight, felt the blood run cold as ice within his veins.

For the face was not a woman's face. It was like a furry skull, like a
moth's face that had attempted to turn human and had stuck halfway.

Down at the end of the table, Cartwright was chuckling.

"You recognize her, Mr. West?"

West clutched the back of his chair so hard that his knuckles suddenly
were white.

"Of course I do," he said. "The White Singer. But how did you bring her
here?"

"So that's what they call her back on Earth," said Nevin.

"But her face," insisted West. "What's happened to her face?"

"There were two of them," said Nevin. "One of them we sent to Earth. We
had to fix her up a bit. Plastic surgery, you know."

"She sings," said Cartwright.

"Yes, I know," said West. "I've heard her sing. Or, at least the other
one ... the one you sent to Earth with the made-over face. She's driven
practically everything else off the air. All the networks carry her."

Cartwright sighed. "I should like to hear her back on Earth," he said.
"She would sing differently there, you know, than she sang here."

"They sing," interrupted Nevin, "only as they feel."

"Firelight on the wall," said Cartwright, "and she'd sing like
firelight on the wall. Or the smell of lilacs in an April rain and her
music would be like the perfume of lilacs and the mist of rain along
the garden path."

"We don't have rain or lilacs here," said Nevin and he looked, for a
moment, as if he were going to weep.

Crazy, thought West. Crazy as a pair of bedbugs. Crazy as the man who'd
drunk himself to death out on Pluto's moon.

And yet, perhaps not so crazy.

"They have no mind," said Cartwright. "That is, no mind to speak of.
Just a bundle of nervous reactions, probably without the type of
sensory perceptions that we have, but more than likely with other
totally different sensory perceptions to make up for it. Sensitive
things. Music to them is an expression of sensory impressions. They
can't help the way they sing any more than a moth can help killing
himself against a candle-flame. And they're naturally telepathic. They
pick up thoughts and pass them along. Retain none of the thought, you
understand, just pass it along. Like old fashioned telephone wires.
Thoughts that listeners, under the spell of music, would pick up and
accept."


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Cartwright: one of the two men at the table, he is the host
-Louis Nevin: the other man at the table, he is a guest
-James Belden: another guest, he is not present
-Annabelle: a woman, she is not present
-The White Singer: a woman with violet eyes and platinum hair, she is the entertainment for the evening