Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
V.

ADVERSE FORTUNE.

A year passed, and Charley, who grew into a tall young man, had grown
to love the prairie.  He had also learned to mend his own clothes
with pieces of cotton flour-bags, cook, and sweep out their rooms
when his sister Alice was busy, besides many other things he used
foolishly to think beneath him; and there was but one check to his
contentment--they had lost another crop.  Again autumn frost followed
a dry season, and all that was left of the wheat was not worth
thrashing.  But they sowed another, which promised well, and so one
summer day Arthur and he rode home from Barholm Grange with lighter
hearts than they had known for some time.  Lilian had gone to
England, but her father asked them to come and see him occasionally.

It was a clear bright day, though by-and-by a dimness spread across
the sky and the wind grew colder, while the bleached buffalo bones,
which are still sprinkled across the prairie, seemed to shine out
curiously white among the grasses.  Only a little while ago the huge
beasts traversed the great plains in countless thousands, but there
is not a single wild one left to-day.

"I'm afraid there's a hailstorm not far away," said Arthur.  "We'll
ride into yonder bluff for shelter."

They went on at a gallop, and it grew nearly dark before they reached
the little wood while the horses trembled when Charley tied them to a
tree.

Then for some minutes there was a deep and very solemn stillness,
during which Charley fancied that the air was filled with sulphur,
while the skin of his head prickled.  This lasted until a blaze of
blue fire seemed to fall from the heavens, and flood all the prairie.
It was followed by a deafening peal of thunder.  Next moment the
birches swayed suddenly sideways and some, tough as they were,
snapped short off.  Charley was forced to drive his heels into the
mould to hold his place while the wood was filling with falling
leaves, and the scream of the blast.  Hailstones the size of marbles,
and some of them even larger, came hurtling like grape-shot between
the trees, and rattled upon the waggon, into which they bounced in
bucketsful.  The horses reared upright as the bending branches lashed
them, and when, fearing that they would bolt and smash the waggon, he
tried to hold them, Charley's hands bled under the thrashing of the
ragged ice.  It is fortunate that we never see such hail in this
country.

Then the storm ceased as suddenly as it came, the wind grew still,
the sun shone out hot and bright again, and when they rode out from
the bluff the grasses were steaming.  Only a cloud arch travelling
south to spread ruin before it, and the wrecked branches in the wood
told what had happened.  The brothers were, however, very silent
during the rest of the journey, and when they reached their farm
towards the close of the afternoon they found Alice waiting for them
with tears upon her cheeks, and her eyelids reddened.  She had not
been crying needlessly, for Alice was a light-hearted girl, and
Arthur's face changed colour as he looked at the corn.  Nothing
remained of the tall wheat which was to feed them that winter but
shattered blades, beaten into ribands and half-buried in the muddy
ground.

"Is it quite ruined?" asked Charley huskily; and Arthur sighed as
making a strong effort he answered calmly--"Quite!  We must shut up
the house, give up the farm, and look for work with the horses and
oxen on the new railway.  Still, we won't despair while we have
health and strength left.  We are not beaten yet, and if we can earn
the money, must try again next year."

Then there was a world of sympathy in Charley's voice, though all he
could find to say was--"Poor old Arthur!"

No one spoke much that evening, for their hearts were heavy, and
Charley, who realised he might never live in it again, thought how
snug and homely the little log-building was, and with what hopes he
had helped to raise it.  But he forgot his troubles in sleep, and
though Arthur wandered about the prairie the whole night through,
they rode out early next morning to the new railway some forty miles
distant.  There a fresh disappointment awaited them, for the engineer
in charge said--

"We have got all the teams we want here, but I like the look of you,
and I could send you timber-hewing on another branch line we are
building in British Columbia.  Our silly men have all started in to
make their fortune gold mining there.  I'll give you a note to the
road surveyor, and free passes, and I dare say he'll let you a
contract you can make something out of."

Arthur thought hard for several minutes, for British Columbia was
several hundred miles away, before he answered--


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its simple, straightforward language. There is no attempt at flowery or poetic description; instead, the focus is on conveying the events of the scene clearly. The point of view is third person omniscient, allowing the reader to see into the thoughts of the characters. The tone is one of resignation and hope in the face of adversity.