Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
No.

Well, what is it?

After considerable hesitation, she at length said

You do not treat me right!you hold my life in your handsyet you are
coldyou do not come near meyou are leaving me to die!

Here then was another long pause.

What more is there? at length asked Manton; this is not all.

This time the choking and hesitation, before pronouncing the words,
seemed greater than ever. At length, however, out they came.

They complain of you in Heaven, that you let me sufferthat you do not
care for my necessitiesthatthat you do notnotgive me money now.

This was too muchManton literally roared with scornful laughter, as he
spurned her from him

Ha! ha! ha! here is illumination for you with a vengeance! Alas! poor
Zschokke! to what base uses do we come! The divine inspiration of
the Sleep-Walker raising the wind! Vive la bagatelle! Hurrah! hurrah!
He fairly danced about the floor, in an ecstacy of enjoymentthe scene
seemed to him so irresistibly ludicrous.

During this time, the woman, who had staggered towards the bed, and
fallen across it, lay perfectly immovable and white, without the
change of a muscle, or the quiver of a nerve. Manton, however, paid no
attention to her, and half an hour afterwards, taking his hat, left
the room, without again approaching her. But what was his astonishment
on returning, two hours afterwards, to meet the sobbing Elna, and the
pale, troubled face of Moione, in the passage. Elna, at the sight of
him, seemed wild with grief, and sprang, with her arms about his neck,
screaming

Oh, mother is dead! mother is dead! My dear mother is dead!

Why, Moione, said Manton quickly, taking her hand, as he shook Elna
off, what is the matter? what is all this?

She seems to be in a fit of some sort. We missed her, and after
looking all over the house, found her lying on the bed in your room,
without motion or breath. We have not been able to wake her since, and
did not know what to do until you came.

Oh, come! do come! screamed the horrified Elna. Save my poor mother!
save her! save her! You must save her! I shall die!

Manton, who immediately felt his conscience sting him, assured the
girls that it was merely a mesmeric sleep, from which he would relieve
her in a few minutes. He then rushed up-stairs, accompanied by them,
and found her, indeed, in precisely the same attitude and apparent
condition in which he had left her. After a few of the usual reverse
passes for removing the magnetic influence, she slowly opened her eyes,
while the blood returned to her face. Starting up and staring about
with a bewildered look, she uttered merely an exclamation of surprise,
and then, after rubbing her eyes, quickly asked the poor child, Elna,
who had thrown herself sobbing wildly on her breast

Why, you foolish girl, whats the matter now?

Mother, dear mother, we thought you were dead!

And now came an explanation, so far as the thoroughly repentant Manton
was disposed to make it, of the scene we have just described; the
amount of which was, that she had come into his room in a clairvoyant
state, and, being called out suddenly, he had left it for an hour or
two, forgetting to make any explanation to the family, and without
having relieved her, as he should have done, before going, by using the
necessary reverse passes.

The incredulity of Manton had never before received so severe a shock;
and it was a long time before his conscience would forgive him, for
what now seemed his brutal suspicion. Alas, poor Manton! had he only
possessed, for a little while after he left that room, the invisible
cap of the Devil on two sticks, he would have been most essentially
enlightened as to something of the art and mystery of Clairvoyance.

As soon as the front-door had slammed behind him, he would have
seen that woman spring to her feet, and, with lips and whole frame
quivering with rage, glide from the room, muttering to herself; and
when she entered her own room, which could be reached through an empty
bath-room, he would have heard several low, peculiar raps upon the
partition-wall which separated her own from the room of her daughter.
These raps were repeated, at intervals, until a single tap at her door
responded, and in another moment the girl Elna glided in on tiptoe. The
conference between them was carried on in a low, rapid, business-like
tone, while every half-minute the girl thrust her head from the window,
to watch as for some one coming.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Manton is in his room when he is suddenly visited by a woman in a clairvoyant state. She accuses him of not treating her right and of neglecting her needs, and says that the people in Heaven are complaining about him. Manton is amused and dismissive at first, but when the woman starts to say that he doesn't give her money, he loses his temper and kicks her out.
Two hours later, he returns to find the woman's daughter, Elna, in a state of hysterics. She tells him that her mother is dead, and Manton realizes that he left her in a clairvoyant state without making any effort to wake her up. He quickly does so, and the woman is none the worse for wear.
Manton is deeply repentant for his suspicions and for his treatment of the woman, and he is left with a newfound respect for the art of clairvoyance.