Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The Grand Duchess loved sport in season and out of season. Every now and
then she would condescend to hunt foxes or deer by way of entertaining
the officers of the 7th Hussars. But her private and peculiar delight
was sport in solitude, preferably on a wet and windy day without grooms,
attendants or beaters. All she required was a dog and the off-chance.
Many an evening have I seen her in her little room making up her own
cartridges. The pretty little cylinders, blue, violet, green, yellow, or
red, white and blue, were spread out before her on a table, into which
the ramrod was screwed. Carefully packing the copper loaders, she gave
to each its dose of powder, wad, charge of shot and little piece of
white cardboard. When she had rammed all this home, she wrote the number
of the charge on each. Hagen was always present on those occasions, and
as it was part of his duties, it would have been very difficult to get
rid of him. Melusine von Graffenfried, indolent and a poor walker,
preferred to stay behind, lying on rugs and smoking her eternal
cigarettes. Count Marais, on the other hand, always came with us.
These excursions gave him a chance of showing off his sensational
sporting clothes, on which Aurora never failed to compliment him. I must
admit he was excellent company, with his high spirits and charming
manner. We used to ride out of the castle about two o'clock in the
afternoon. The first stage was the _Herrenwald_. Squirrels swarmed in
the trees. Pheasants rose heavily from the ground as we passed. At the
bottom of some wooded ravine we could hear the fussy but invisible
flight of a woodcock.

Marais would have preferred to stay there. He liked woodland sport,
pheasant shooting in the open with some one beside him to load his gun
and point out the game: "A cock on the left, Herr Count," "A hen on your
right!"

But this kind of thing was not to the liking of the Grand Duchess
Aurora, who detested everything official on such occasions and in any
case showed a marked preference for water-fowl.

Soon the stunted trees grew rarer, great wastes of marsh appeared, under
a sheen of grey and pale green. The sun above was already a glowing
ball, low down on the horizon.

Two servants were waiting for us at a little rustic hut. They took our
horses. Marais had his dog, Dick, a big Auvergne pointer, hard of
mouth and apt to range rather far, though it came to heel well. The
Grand Duchess's ugly black and red spaniel seemed a kind of dog brother
to Taras-Bulba.

In sheer joy Aurora dropped the reins and sprang from her horse. I can
still see her opening her "Hammerless" and slipping in the two mauve
cartridges. I can still hear the sharp click of the brass rim against
the steel of the barrel....

At fifteen, armed with an old fowling-piece, I had already tasted the
extraordinary delights of shooting over marsh. When, later, I was in the
army, firing at disappearing targets had seemed to me mere child's play
compared to the fine right and left at diverging snipe I managed to pull
off more than once in those early days.

To the north of Dax there is an immense marsh bounded by the wretched
hamlets of Herm and Gourbera. You reach it through a gorge known as "La
Cible" because the Emperor's gamekeepers used to shoot there in bygone
days.

Here was the same misty waste. How well I remember the soft squish of
the wet ground, as if the earth itself were dissolving, and the tall
yellow grasses, which are sharp as a knife and cut your hands if you're
foolish enough to touch them.

I knew all the birds and beasts, all the varied life of those stretches
of mud, treacherous beds of green moss, reed-fringed ponds--the whole
great expanse that looks so flat and monotonous.

Like the fair sportswoman of the Volga marshes, I knew all the birds
that haunt these wan regions: the black, or water-rail, which hops about
in leafless trees; the red-rail, or corn-crake, which runs at lightning
speed through the high grass, throws the best dogs off the scent,
reduces the sportsman to breathlessness and makes you think you are
after a hare, until it suddenly decides to take wing, from which moment
it becomes an easy prey, poor, silly thing.

There were many species of duck, which sweep dizzily overhead in their
curious oblique and rigid flight; shovellers, pochards, sheldrake, with
their pretty red heads; shrill-voiced teal, which fly in couples and
have a trefoil of three black feathers on their ruddy breasts.

There were lapwings, black and white, like magpies, which rise up
swiftly with their croaking cry and then swoop wildly to earth to dodge
your shot.

There were plovers, handsomest of birds, in their golden spring raiment.

And, last and best, there was snipe, queen of the marshes, and the
finest and hardest of shots; the jack snipe, smaller than a lark, which
has blue and green stripes; the common snipe, which is about the size of
a quail, and amazingly timid, and the great snipe, rarest of all, which
is as big as a partridge.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is lyrical and descriptive, with a focus on the natural world. The point of view is from the perspective of a character who is reminiscing about their youth, and the tone is nostalgic and wistful.