Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Then Nathan related anecdotes of their savage neighbors until Lissa, her
fright over, laughed merrily.

I am afraid I shall be constrained to keep the curtains down in your
absence if there is any danger of being frequently startled by such
apparitions, she said, with a shake of her curly head.

Youll mind nothing about it in a short time. I must take you out to
the reservation, and show you the noble redman in his home. But, come to
the door, I have a present for you. I see Mark has driven over the
ponies.

They stepped into the open doorway, and as Nathan whistled a call, a
beautiful white pony started up from the group grazing near, and came
cantering toward them.

I have had this horse in training for a long time, and she is as docile
and gentle as a kitten. Puss, he said, stroking the ponys smooth neck,
this is your new mistress. No one shall ever drive or ride you from
this day, but this little lady.

Lissa flushed with pleasure and put out her hand to caress the pretty
creature, which seemed to understand, and acknowledged her acquaintance
by dropping its head and rubbing its pink nose in her palm.

Come, jump on her back. She requires no bridle, but will move in any
direction you may indicate by the motion of your hand.

Lissa permitted Nathan to seat her, and at the word the gentle little
creature lifted her ears and stared across the prairie at an easy lope,
most delightful to the rider. Lissa was charmed.

How delightful! How intelligent! How easy! she cried, as the pony,
obeying the wave of her hand, turned back toward the house. As easy as
a rocking-chair. How I shall enjoy going about with her.

She is perfectly safe, and never scares at anything except farming
implements. She usually prefers to make a detour whenever she sees a
drag or plow. We tried to hitch her to a mower when we first brought her
here, but she utterly refused to be coerced into service and tried to
get away by vaulting into the air, lying down in the harness, and
performing other gymnastic feats. In fact, she behaved in such an
utterly demoralized manner, even kicking and biting, that we concluded
we would not subject her to such a trial again.

The poor thing! She felt it to be a degradation and would not submit to
it. I do not blame her. And Lissa caressed her pityingly.

A few days subsequent to this Nathan announced his intention of going to
the trading post and Indian village, inviting Lissa to accompany him.

Accordingly, one bright morning they mounted their horses, and after a
refreshing canter of several miles came in sight of the reservation.

They overtook on the way a number of Indians, bestriding scrubby little
mustangs, which they managed with rope reins tied to the under jaws of
the ponies. At the post Nathan was greeted by a shout of Ho, ho, ho,
Cheiks-ta-ka-la-sha! which Nathan interpreted as a greeting to the
white-man-chief from the approaching brave.

The lazy aboriginal then begged the privilege of sharing Nathans pony.
He was weary and would ride. But Nathan declined to grant the request,
telling him the pony was not strong enough to carry double.

Several other Indians welcomed him in the same manner, each one asking
about the _chuppet_ who accompanied him.

Soon they were at the village, a collection of Indian huts covering
quite an area of ground, built of sod or mud and most of them circular
in form, with but two openings, one at the top for the escape of smoke,
and a low passageway through which one must stoop to enter.

At this season of the year the huts were but little occupied, being
infested with fleas, and small tents, made of poles covered by blankets
or bison skin, afforded more inviting shelter from sun and rain.

Little nude children ran about here and there, or ducked in the waters
of the river, like so many young goslings. Stalwart Indian-braves
sauntered to and fro lazily about the wigwams or squatted on the ground
under cover of their tents. The Indian industries seemed to be confined
to the women, who were laboriously employed roasting corn in holes in
the ground or scraping and rubbing the bison skins which had been
recently brought in from the plains; for the braves were just home from
their summer hunt, and preparations were going forward for their great
green-corn festival.

In vain our Eastern woman looked for the beautiful Indian maiden of
poesy and song. She concluded no poet could find inspiration to write of
these dirty humans, with unpleasant faces and tangled locks.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Nathan: a man who is friends with the Indians and knows their language
-Lissa: a woman who is new to the area and is charmed by the ponies
-Mark: a man who drives ponies
-Puss: a white pony who is gentle and docile
-the Indians: a group of lazy, dirty humans who are not as pleasant as Lissa had hoped