Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
A moment later the Professor entered the apartment. Melissa had time,
while he greeted the head of the family, to note that he was a
medium-sized, wiry-looking man, of about forty, with very long red hair
hanging to his shoulders, and bristling whiskers of the same color. His
lower jaw was prominent and his ears were flattened very close to his
head. But his most remarkable feature was a pair of keen gray eyes,
which gleamed restlessly from under rather overhanging brows.

When presented to Lissa he fixed his eyes upon her in a way that caused
her to suppress a shudder, and regarded her steadily for a moment, then,
still holding her by the hand, which she would gladly have withdrawn, he
said:

You look like your mother, Mrs. Bartram, except that she has blue eyes.
She has a scar on her left wrist, made in a peculiar manner.

Lissa blushed painfully, and followed his eyes to her own wrist as she
drew away her hand. She knew the history of the scar alluded to, though
she believed it unknown to any one outside her own immediate family. She
felt the inquiring eyes of her husbands relatives upon her, and sat
down ill at ease.

Presently the company were seated about a table in the center of the
room, and the clairvoyant announced himself in readiness to afford proof
of his wonderful powers.

Accordingly, two or three lines cut from a letter from a sister of the
bride were placed in his hand, so rolled that no words written there
could give any clue to the writer.

Professor Russell gazed passively at the rolled scrap for a time, then
the muscles of his face began to twitch slightly, his eyes became vacant
and partly closed; there was a convulsive movement of his shoulders, a
long-drawn sigh, and he began to speak.

I can see a wilder scene than this, a country as far as the eye can
reach, a vast table-land, dotted here and there with adobe houses and
their contiguous cotton-wood groves of one or two years growth. One of
these houses stands facing south, and in the doorway I can see a woman.
She is looking anxiously westward, shading her face with her hand. She
has on a dress of some dark material, partly covered with a kitchen
apron. She has dark hair andah, now she has removed her hand; she looks
like a lady in this room, except that she is taller, and her hair, a
shade lighter, is worn in braids instead of curls. Her gray eyes have an
anxious look in them. A number of ponies are corralled near the house.
What is she looking at?

The Professor spoke slowly, as if studying the scene of his clairvoyant
vision. Nathan and Lissa exchanged glances, while Donald rolled up his
eyes with a concealed affectation of awe. Squire Bartram appeared
interested, and glanced toward Lissa inquiringly, while his wife, good
soul, gazed sternly and forbiddingly at the Professor as though she
believed him in league with his Satanic majesty, and the ghosts of her
Puritan forefathers were warning her against him.

Meanwhile the face of the man was working strangely.

The house has disappeared from my vision, he cried, and I can see a
still wilder country, through which runs a placid, shining river. A
large party of Indians are cantering across the prairie, mounted on
round, sleek-looking mustangs. With them is a white man, young and
handsome, with light, flowing hair, and fearless blue eyes. He is
dressed in hunting costume, with wide-brimmed hat, and he rides a white
pony with an army saddle and large stirrups. There is a coil of rope at
his saddle bow and a couple of pistols and a hatchet in his belt. He
carries also a rifle.

The ground over which they are traveling is torn and trampled as if an
army had lately traversed it, andah, yes, I see, away in the west, a
herd of buffalo looking like a great black cloud against the sky, and
showing distinctly against the red of the setting sun behind it. But,
look, they have turned their course toward the south and are running
their horses at full speed! They turn in their saddles and look
northward. I see! There is another party coming from that direction.

The Professor looked fixedly a moment and continued:

They are Indians, also; a larger band, and hideously painted. The
others are spurring their horses toward the river to escape this hostile
band, who have seen them, and like the wind are rushing down upon them.
Their horses are more fleet, they are gaining upon themthey lift their
rifles and shoot! Good! Their shots do not reach them. The white man
rises in his stirrups and returns the fire. The Indians of his party
follow his example. Their rifles have longer range and their shots tell.
Several saddles of the pursuing party are empty.

The man spoke eagerly now. His restless gray eyes kindled, and his face
glowed with animation. His story had produced a like effect upon his
listeners, all of whom showed more or less excitement.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very descriptive. The author uses a lot of detail to describe the setting and the characters. The tone is also quite suspenseful, as the reader is not sure what is going to happen next.