Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"This is Contractor Gordon," he said to a famous engineer.  "You will
remember I told you about him, and how he helped us to save part of
the line."

"I am glad to meet you," said the engineer, holding out his hand to
Arthur.  "We are indebted to you, and should be pleased if you will
ride into the town with us.  I want to talk to you."

Charley also started when another grey-haired man touched his
brother's shoulder, for he recognised Colonel Armadale.  "I must
congratulate you, too," he said.  "We have heard several creditable
things about you, and perhaps you did not know I was a large
shareholder in this railway.  We'll have to talk so much at dinner
that you must answer the speeches for us now, Mr. Surveyor."

"I'm a railroad builder, and not a talker," said the surveyor as he
faced the expectant crowd.  "Talking's easy, railroad building's
hard, and you folks should be proud because you've got a good one.
Yes, we're going to bring you in prosperity, and, we hope, earn a few
dividends, while you build your city, but when you all get rich don't
forget the men who made this road.  Some lost their money, and some
their lives, you know.  All fought hard, and you'll give them their
due, so when you're raising statues to your mayors and presidents,
don't forget a little one to the man with the big, hard hands who
swings the shovel."

There was applause which swelled into a roar as a stalwart man in
dusty blue jean stood up.  "This country fed us well an' we done our
little best to pay it back," he said.  "It wasn't easy, but we
worried through, and I'd like to mention one man to whom partickler
thanks are due.  He's standing right there beside the surveyor.  He
struck the hardest bad luck, but he didn't lie down an' die.  No,
sir; says he, 'What I've begun I'll finish,' an' he done it too.
What's more, when any of the rest of us was nearly beat, he stood by
an' helped us, helped us with axe an' ox-team, however he was busy.
Gave us flour when the grub run out, an' good oats for the starvin'
beasts when we couldn't buy no hay.  Stand up, Arthur Gordon, we're
all looking to you."

The air was filled with lifted hats and excited cries when Arthur
Gordon leaned over the platform balustrade, laying a big hand that
trembled on the brass rail, and Charley's eyes grew bright with
pleasure when there was another roar from the assembly as the
surveyor patted his shoulder.  Arthur said little, and said it
quietly, but it pleased the listeners, for there was a deafening
cheer when he finished, and several of the principal guests shook
hands with him.  Then Charley's flushed face beamed as Tom who came
up said, "Just splendid, wasn't it?  I wish I had a brother like him.
I knew he was going to be a great man ever since the day he jumped
overboard to save me."

After this everybody scrambled for a place on the cars, and when,
with the whistle screaming, the train moved on, those who could not
find one ran behind it cheering towards the town, with Reggie waving
his hat among them.  When the latter turned back, he and Charley rode
quietly home on a trolley to their shanty of cedar bark, while when
Arthur returned at night he looked happy, and said he was very
thankful.

"They have paid me more than we bargained for," he said--"made it up
in a number of small extras; and there's another profitable contract
open to me.  I'm to go back to the other new railroad, near our
homestead, and begin as soon as the frost goes.  I'll want several
dozen teams, and we should make a good deal out of it.  Charley, you
and Reggie must sow the crop yourselves next year; there is now no
cause for anxiety, and if all goes as well as it promises to, I shall
be able to start you by and by on Government land of your own."

Then Arthur took out some old letters, and when he sat down to write
under the blinking lamp, Charley smiled at Reggie and they slipped
out to join the workmen in camp.

"I think he wants to tell Miss Armadale about it, and won't miss us
for once," said Charley.

They spent a happy winter in their own homestead, and when spring
came Arthur hired all the men and teams he could on that part of the
prairie, and went away to work on the new railroad, though he often
rode forty miles to see how his brothers got on with the farm, and
went back round by Barholm; while they reaped a very good crop that
year.  Bad fortune does not last for ever, and the men who succeed
are those who can work on and wait patiently, for greater than dash
and daring are the powers of slow endurance.  Then Arthur brought a
Government surveyor and laid out 160 acres of good land ready for
Charley, who, with his younger brother, had been hewing logs for
their house in the bluff.  But before it was ready Arthur married
Lilian Armadale, and they went to live in the old homestead, which
had been doubled in size.  It was Tom, the former stowaway, who took
the contract for the carpentry.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its simple, straightforward language. There is a clear, objective point of view, and the tone is one of celebration and optimism.