What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XXIV


AT THE CIRCLE DIAMOND

ROWANS decision to sell the ranch was on the face of it a wise one.
Ruth recognized this. She knew nothing of cattle, nothing of farming.

But she told herself she could learn. Her interest was very greatly
engaged in saving the Circle Diamond for Rowan. Other women had done
well homesteading. She knew one widow who raised cattle, another who
made money on sheep. Why should she not do the same? It was all very
well to say that she had no business experience, but she had as much as
other people had when they began. If she did not succeed, the failure
would hurt her rather than Rowan.

She talked it all over with Flanders, a long-headed business man who
knew cattle from hoof to horn.

The cattleman sure has his troubles aplenty, he told her. Short
summers, long winters, deep snows, blizzards, bad roads, heavy railroad
rates, a packers trust to buck, drought, and now sheep. A cowman has
got to bet before the draw; he cant ever tell whether hes going to
finish with a hand all blue or a busted flush.

Yes, but Ive heard you say yourself that cattle-raising used to be a
gamble and that from now on its going to be a business instead, she
reminded him.

He took off his big white hat and rubbed a polka-dot handkerchief over
his bald head.

Thas right, too. Government reports show theres several million fewer
cattle in the country than there was five years ago. That spells good
prices. Theres a good side to this forest-reserve business, too. It
keeps the range from being overcrowded, and it settles the sheep and
cattle war. Ive got a hunch there would be money in leasing the range
and putting cattle to run on it.

Well, then? she demanded triumphantly.

That aint saying _you_ could make money. Jennings is a good foreman,
but it takes a boss to run any shebang right.

When the boss is in doubt she could telephone to you.

Ruth always had been a favourite of Flanderss. It pleased him that he
could help her in her affairs, and it flattered him to think that he
could help her make a success of the Circle Diamond. The conspiracy she
proposed intrigued his interest. She had some money. Why not use it to
save the ranch for Rowan? Why not let her have the pleasure of showing
her husband later how well she had done in his absence? It would give a
zest to her life that would otherwise be lacking. Moreover, it would be
another tie to bind her to McCoy.

He yielded to the temptation, fell into her plans, grew eager over them.
There was a good deal of sympathy for her in the country, so that she
had little difficulty in securing a permit for her cattle to range on
the reserve at the usual price.

In a letter, Ruth wrote her husband that Flanders thought it better not
to sell out just yet, but she gave no details of what she was doing in a
business way. She left him to gather that they were watching their
chance to get a good figure for the place. There was, she felt, no use
worrying him about the venture she was making.

Her interest in the ranch developed amazingly. Jennings was an
experienced cattleman and devoted to Rowan. It had been his curt opinion
that McCoy was a fool for marrying this feather-footed girl from the
East. Her gaiety and extravagance had annoyed him. The flirtation with
Silcott had set him flatly against her. But now he began to revise his
estimate. He liked the eagerness with which she flung herself into this
exciting game of saving the Circle Diamond. He liked the deference she
paid his judgment, and he admired the courage with which once or twice
she decided flatly against him.

Dinged if she aint got more sense than half the men you meet!
chuckled the foreman on one occasion when her verdict had proved more
discriminating than his advice. The little boss done right not to take
that Cheyenne bid for the dogies. He did not know that it was really
Flanders who was responsible for vetoing the sale.

There were hours, of course, when the loneliness of her life swept over
Ruth in waves, when she fought desperately for a footing against
despair. It was her inheritance to tread the hilltops or the valleys
rather than the dusty road. But in general she was almost happy. A warm
glow flushed her being when she thought of Rowan. Some sure voice
whispered to her that however long he might be kept from her the flame
of love would burn bright in his heart.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the character of Ruth and to show how she is determined to save the ranch for her husband. The author also establishes the relationship between Ruth and Flanders, and how they are working together to achieve their goal.