Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XXXIII
CONCLUSION


It is radiant summer-time and the June roses are making the air sweet
with fragrance. June breezes are fanning alike the flower-crowned
prairie of the West and the crowded thoroughfares of the Eastern cities.

The electric current has bridged distances and connected the breath-note
of Chicago with that of New York. By it we can listen to the voices of
our friends, across the mighty expanse of the continent. We can even
store up their words and songs and reecho them at will. A strange force
is this invisible current of which we are now learning the Alpha. What
its ultimate possibilities are, who shall determine? With it the
opposing forces of nature are made subservient and the very winds can be
made messengers between physical and sentient beings.

We look at the trolley car passing our door and wonder at the power that
propels it. Little by little we are opening our souls to the reception
of beliefs in the invisible powers of nature.

How far is it to the end? What new and marvelous revelations shall each
succeeding year bring to us?


A reception is being held in the parlors of the hotel where the scene of
our first chapter was laid. Forest City has become a town of
metropolitan proportions and its citizens are among the most progressive
people of these twentieth century days.

Among the guests filling the parlors are several whose names are
household words throughout our land.

A strange case, says one, that reported of double identity. A
Welshman half of the time and an Englishman the other half, and the two
wholly unacquainted with each other.

Did you hear, inquires another, of the psychic experience of Dr.
Seba?

No, what was it?

Why, as I heard it, the Doctor was out one day at the farther end of
Grande Avenue, and on his way home, when he felt an impelling force
direct him to go to a certain house. It was a place which he had never
before visited, and he could not account for the power which moved him.
However, he yielded to the influence, and arrived just in time to save
the life of a lady taken with hemorrhage from the lungs. He prescribed
for her, wondering that no one expressed any surprise at seeing him
there, and did not know until he reached his down-town office that a
telephone message directing him to that same place awaited him, having
been received by his clerk after he had left the office.

How do you account for it?

Telepathy. The message was taken to him by a mental current, no more
mysterious nor wonderful than that which propels that electric fan
there. All the mechanism of the world is governed by unchanging law.
Thought transference, hypnotism, clairaudience and clairvoyance are
undoubtedly governed by laws which, when understood, may appear simple.
Science is a divine revelation, and some genius will be given the key by
which its mysteries shall be deciphered. Teslas discoveries are opening
the door to a before-closed world of knowledge. The Roentgen ray has
proven supposed opaque bodies transparent. Who among us would not have
denied a few years ago the possibility of such a thing? And then think
of wireless telegraphy, another wonderful discovery.

Of course you have read Hudsons explanation of psychic phenomena?

Yes; his idea of subjective mind explains much of the
before-unexplained, so-called spirit manifestations, at least to my
satisfaction; but there is much more that I would like to understand. It
will be some time, I imagine, before we shall equal the Hindoos in the
knowledge of psychic forces. I confess, when I read of some of their
performances, I am ready to believe it supernatural.

True, but think how much is no longer mysterious which, a few years
ago, was deemed supernatural!

Yes, we are a progressive people. For one thing, Doctor, mental
therapeutics has done much to prevent the mortality from drug-poisoning.
Dont you think so?

Ahem! Well, yes, perhaps it has. The great trouble is, when a person is
given a glimmering of a great truth he immediately jumps at conclusions
and carries the idea beyond the bounds of common sense. I am Rosicrucian
enough to believe that nature has given an antidote to every ill human
flesh is heir to, and that every leaf and flower that grows has its
beneficent uses if we were wise enough to understand them. I dont deny
that the mind has much to do with the condition of the body, but I
believe even mind influence has its limitations. Of course, nervous and
hysterical people are most susceptible to it, and oftentimes diseases
exist only in the mind.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene is a reception being held in the parlors of a hotel in Forest City. Among the guests are several well-known people. One of the guests comments on a recent news story about a man with two identities, one Welsh and one English, who are unaware of each other. Another guest tells the story of a doctor who was compelled by an unknown force to go to a certain house, where he saved the life of a woman who was hemorrhaging. The guests discuss the possible explanations for these events, including telepathy and the power of the mind. They agree that science is gradually revealing the mysteries of the world, and that there is much still to be understood.