What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
H. E. had me out to dine at the palace, to ask me about another job,
opening up the Burnt Lands by canals, and would I design the boats? It
seems tame, after the San Jacinto: like falling off a log; but I want to
be in everything that H. E. is in. He thinks that the B. L. can be
planted in patches, if there are catchments. He is the most hopeful soul
I know.

By the way, in the palace, I found the Aztec, the Ribote brother. He is
a sort of Secretary for Clerical Affairs, rather a big gun. I did not
remind him of our meeting.

Well, this is a long letter: I must stop.

Words cannot describe the changes in the city since the bad old 87
days: no town can have changed more in the time. My love to Bell and
Father. I hope to be back in June, for a couple of months: so dont fill
the house up.

A note added by Highworth Ridden:

The above was written by me to my mother soon after the completion of
the dam, when I revisited Santa Barbara for the first time since the
troubles. I left the pier on that morning of the troubles thinking to be
back in ten days: I did not return save for that time as a prisoner for
more than eleven years.

What I did not and could not write to my mother, I write now, after
another eleven years. It is about Carlotta. It is difficult to set down
what she was to me. Calf-love, I suppose most people would say. Well,
there is a generosity in calf-love that gives it a grace: not that mine
had any grace. I saw her on only one day twenty-two years ago: I have
thought of her every day since; not as a lover of course (for years
past), but as a spirit apart, unlike anyone else that ever was. You who
never saw her cannot understand this. She was the most exquisite thing:
in life marvellous, in the unspeakable end, heroic: and always so
beautiful, so gracious. All who knew her felt this: she had cruel
enemies, the mad, the diseased, the godless, the savage and the greedy
hated her.

I went to the chapel of Carlotta, which H. E. built. Her tomb, with her
recumbent figure, is there: it is very beautiful. Her sculptured head on
the stairs leading to the Plaza is liker her. Gamarros painting of her
is not like. Bedwyns pencil sketch is like. But she was like the light,
no one could have painted her.

I tried to do something for her once, and though I failed, I am prouder
of that than of anything else that I have ever done. Whatever she was,
she made men know that gleams come into this world from a world beyond,
which is better than this.

H. F. R.

When I set out from the hotel on that morning of the troubles, I took
with me a scrap of the hermosita which she had broken for me. This being
in my pocket-book, was stolen from me at Ribote by the Englishman who
got me out of jail. The rest of the spray, being in my trunk at the
hotel, was, as I supposed, lost, during the troubles, with all my kit.

But in 1899, being at the Club in Santa Barbara, I met the then
proprietor of the hotel, who said, that he had recently found some
trunks and bags in a disused cellar: that these had evidently been put
away during the troubles and never claimed since, and were now to be
sold. I went to see them, and among them found one of my tin trunks, in
which were some ruined clothes. With the clothes, in some hotel
blotting-paper, I found the hermosita spray which Carlotta had given to
me, and the envelope, addressed by her to Donna Emilia, which I had
picked up and kept. So that I have what few have, one of the last gifts
and one of the last writings of a lovely soul.

That is all that one can say of her, that she was a lovely soul. I have
met no one in the least like her. I can but thank God for her, knowing
that she came from God.

H. F. R.

A note upon Carlotta, by Arturo Grau, author of Memoirs of
Those Times.

I felt when I met her, what I have felt ever since, that in her mortal
body an angel walked, who needed but a small instrument though a perfect
one.

Those who met her, felt despair at their unworthiness beside so much
perfection; yet felt exaltation at the thought that such perfection
could be in this world. I can truly say, with so many others, that she
altered my life for me.

Another note upon Carlotta, by Roberto Mandariaga.

None can describe her, nor would one understand, if she were described.
She was like a light sent from God.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the character of Carlotta as someone who is otherworldly and perfect. The author achieves this by having various characters describe her in glowing terms.