Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Steps clicked along the other zigzags. Phelps came in through one.
"No hits," he said, "one run, and the only error was shutting off the
cross-country pneumo. Tough. But the country got along without the
shipment of short-lived radioisotopes before and it'll have to do
without them again until they get the tube put together. Nice going,
Crandall."

Behind him was Jane Nolan--Doctor Jane Nolan. Like her colleagues,
Jane Nolan was often quoted in texts, had made several contributions
to science, and was an authority on several subjects. She was not
a beautiful woman; but her quiet air sometimes permitted a rather
interesting personality to show through. Men forgot her mature thirty
years and her lack of breath-taking beauty and dated her; then found
themselves at once intrigued by her personality and completely baffled
by her quick mind--and then went elsewhere in search of wide-eyed
pulchritude.

Deep interest or honest admiration often lighted up her face and made
it handsome if not beautiful. She looked very attractive now as she
went to Crandall.

"That was brave," she said.

"Self-preservation," he said.

"We have that too," she replied with a slight smile. "And we also know
that we cannot outrun that sort of thing. But we ran."

He smiled at her cheerfully. "I'm not a scientist," he said. "I'm just
a newspaperman, remember? Perhaps I'm just too ignorant to realize the
degree of danger."

Jane Nolan shook her head. "You've either seen the remains or pictures
of them, of the other labs that failed. You know--"

"Look," he chuckled, "let's put it this way. We were dead ducks anyway.
The devil himself couldn't have outrun that explosion without jet
assistance." He turned to Claverly, "If I'd had any sense, I wouldn't
have tried to smash it. I should have known that belting it with a
hammer wouldn't have stopped it--if anything, it should have hastened
the explosion."

"I hardly think so," said Claverly thoughtfully. "Remember that the
crystal is not an explosive in itself. Or so we believe. Anyway--"

"Anyway, thanks to Dave, we still have our lab," said Jane. "Let's get
back to work."

Dave shook his head. There was no point in arguing with them. They
called him brave. Nuts! Nine great laboratories had gone skyward with
their complement of scientists, trying to reproduce the fabulous
Manhattan Crystal which was now furnishing the city of New York with
electrical power. And with the deadly record of nine to nothing against
them, the scientists continued to try. Theirs was the true bravery. It
was a deadly experiment, and one that was not permitted--

Dave looked startled. "I thought the government insisted that these
experiments be run by telemeter control?"

"They are."

"Then what in the hell were we doing here?" demanded Crandall.

"The crystal," said Claverly, "was developed last week. We'd done
everything but taste it by telemeter. It had been tested chemically,
electrically, mechanically, atomically, physically and about any other
way you can think of. We've had it white-hot and down to a half-degree
Kelvin. We've dropped it, hit it, subjected it to electrostatic and
electromagnetic fields, dunked it in everything from aqua to zerone,
looked at it and through it, bombarded it with every radiation possible
from the pile, and let it sit on a glass-topped platform to meditate.
We believed it was safe; that we'd been successful. We came in to hook
it up and test its power output, like the Manhattan Crystal. You came
along."

Dave nodded. The message in his pocket told him that Merion Laboratory
had successfully created a replica of the Manhattan Crystal and if he
so desired, he could be present at its testing.

He said slowly, "It seems as if there might be something important
here."

"What?"

"I hate to suggest it; it sounds silly."

"So do a lot of things," said Claverly. "Go on."

"I'm out of my depth here," said Dave. "But I've read of the so-called
human aura. The sort of thing that gives certain gardeners a 'green
thumb' and makes other men capable of curing a headache by merely
rubbing the head with the fingertips. Is this sort of thing merely
superstition or has it any basis in fact?"


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is scientific and factual. There is no hint of emotion or feeling, and the characters speak in a matter-of-fact way about the events that have just transpired.