What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Relieved from anxiety concerning the duel, I took a little rest. During
the day, the news of M. dIonis decease, which took place at Vienna
fifteen days before (news did not travel so quickly then as now), was
published in the city, and the suit suspended in view of a speedy
arrangement between the parties concerned.

In the evening we received a visit from young dAillane. He came to beg
my fathers pardon, and this time I granted it gladly. Notwithstanding
the serious manner in which he spoke of M. dIonis death, we could
easily see that he concealed his joy with difficulty. He took supper
with us; after which he followed me into my room.

My dear friend, said he, for you must allow me to call you such
henceforth, I would like to unburden my heart to you, which overflows in
spite of myself. You do not consider me so interested, I hope, as to
think I am so wild with joy, over the close of this suit. The secret of
my happiness

Dont speak of it, said I, we know it, we have guessed it.

And why should I not speak of it to you, who deserve so much esteem and
inspire so much affection? Do not think that you are a stranger to me.
It is now three months since I have been giving an account of all your
actions and your successes to

To whom, pray?

To Madame dIonis. She was very anxious about you for some time after
your stay at her house. To such an extent that I became jealous. She
reassured me on that point, however, by explaining to me that you were
seriously ill there for twenty-four hours.

Then, said I, with some anxiety, as she has no secrets from you, she
must have told you the cause of those hours of delirium?

Yes, dont worry yourself about it; she has told me everything, and
without either of us thinking of making light of it. On the contrary, we
were very sad over it, and Madame dIonis reproached herself for
allowing you to tamper with certain ideas of a dangerous nature. All
that I know about it myself, is that though I may swear like a trooper
that I do not believe in the green ladies, I would never have had
sufficient courage to summon them a second time. And, besides, if they
had appeared I would have certainly broken everything in the room, and
you whom I so stupidly irritated yesterday, your bravery, as regards
supernatural affairs, far excels my curiosity.

This amiable youth, who was then on leave of absence came to see me
every day, and we soon grew very intimate. He could not show himself yet
at the chteau dIonis, and he awaited with impatience the time when his
beloved and beautiful cousin would permit him to present himself, after
she had consecrated the first period of mourning, _aux convenances_. He
would have preferred taking up his abode in some town nearer her
residence, but she had forbidden him to do so in due form, unwilling to
rely upon the prudence of a _fianc_ so much in love.

Besides, he said that he had business at Angers, although he could not
explain what it was, and he did not appear to interest himself much in
it, as he passed all his time with me.

He told me all about his love affair with Madame dIonis. They had been
destined for each other and their love had been mutual from infancy.
Caroline had been sacrificed to ambition and placed in a convent to
break up their intimacy. They had seen each other secretly before and
since her marriage with M. dIonis. The young captain did not consider
himself bound to make any mystery of it, as their relations had been
always of a perfectly pure nature.

Had it been otherwise, said he, I would not be quite so confiding.

His confidences, which I had at first repelled, ended by winning me
over. His was one of those frank and open natures which no one could
resist. He questioned me persistently, and seemed to understand the art
of doing so without appearing either curious or importunate. You could
not help feeling that he was really interested in you, and that he
wished those whom he loved to be as happy as himself.

I allowed myself then to go as far as to tell him the whole of my story,
and even to confess the strange passion that dominated me. He listened
to me very seriously and assured me he saw nothing absurd in my love.
Instead of trying to make me forget it, he advised me to complete the
task I had set myself of becoming a good and worthy man.

When you have accomplished this, said he, either some miracle will
happen to you, or rather your mind, no longer perturbed, will recognize
that it has wandered in pursuit of some sweet chimera; some still
sweeter reality will then replace it, and your virtues as well as your
talents will none the less prove blessings of inestimable value.

Never, I replied, I will never love another than the heroine of my
dream.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the relationship between the two main characters, and to set up the conflict that will drive the rest of the story.