Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Presently they rode to the tent of the chief of the tribe, who invited
them to dismount and enter.

As Lissa followed Nathan into the small tent she confessed to an
instinctive desire to flee in the opposite direction, for as she sat
down upon the cushion her host placed for her, six Indian warriors
entered and squatted down in a circle around her husband and herself. A
timid look at Nathan, however, met assurance, and she tried to banish
fear, but the thought of the white man flayed on the banks of the river
would force itself upon her, and she found herself looking at their
hands with a feeling of horror, which with an effort she sought to keep
from appearing in her face.

Two women were laboring assiduously at a large bison skin at the door of
the tent, scraping, pounding, and rubbing it, until it was white as a
piece of cotton, but paying little attention to her, save now and then a
stolen glance up from their work.

Then Lissa was attracted to the movements of the chief, who took a
long-handled, red-clay pipe and filled it from several bone cups, filled
apparently with a variety of herbs, then lighted it, and after taking
two or three whiffs passed it to the Indian at his right, and thus it
was handed around the circle. The herbs gave out a pungent odor as they
burned, which to Lissa was sickening, and she was thankful that she was
passed by and only Nathan invited to smoke with them their _calumet_.

The chief then took another of the odd-looking cups, and filling it with
a kind of chowdered, dried meat gave it to Lissa.

She was embarrassed, for she dared not refuse it, yet shuddered at the
thought of tasting it. Nathan answered her imploring looks by laughing
and explaining to the donor that the white squaw was from the land of
the rising sun and had not learned to appreciate such a treat. The
chief, too, smiled, a little contemptuously Lissa thought, at her
ignorance of this dainty, and called to one of the squaws to bring her
corn.

Lissa was glad to accept the shining ear of maize, roasted within its
husk to an appetizing brown, and she ate it with a relish, much to the
satisfaction of the Indians and the woman who brought it.

In the mean time, Nathan, his eyes twinkling with amusement, was
carrying on an animated conversation with one of the Indians in their
dialect, and gesticulating toward Lissa, as if she might be furnishing
the topic of discussion. She felt relieved when her husband arose and
proposed their departure.

When they were again in their saddles and careening over the
flower-strewn sward Nathan explained that the Indian was attempting to
bargain for the white chuppet, offering for her his three squaws, two
ponies, a wagon, some wampumin fact, all of his possessions.

And you were really bartering me before my face, and I ignorant of it?
said Lissa. Well, I like that!

Yes, and the fellow was terribly in earnest too. He thought you would
make a good wife to hoe his corn and work for him, laughed Nathan.

Oh, the horrid creature! How my ideal of the noble redman has fallen
since coming here. And she quoted:

Black and glossy were her ringlets,
As the tresses of the sea;
Gloomy as the starless midnight,
Pretty star-eyed Estollee.

O Nate, where are they, those beautiful children of the forest, whom
Longfellow and other poets dreamed of? The squaws are positively ugly
with their tangled hair, narrow eyes, high cheek bones, nakedness and
dirt. The men are not bad. They are at least straight and symmetrical,
she added.

The women are bowed down and deformed by hard labor and heavy burdens,
Nathan replied. Be thankful for what civilization has done for women.

Oh, it is dreadful! Those great lazy fellows lying about and doing
nothing. Noble redmen indeed! Ignoble, rather.

Well, the Quakers are at work among them. We may expect an improvement
in the next generation, if not in this. But here we are at the post.
Come, we will go in and look about.

In addition to the stores and trinkets of Indian manufacture for sale,
Lissa was interested in the girls of the Quaker school, who, though
dressed in the calico dresses of civilized America, were yet far from
the ideal maiden she thought. They were shy, hiding their faces if she
looked at or attempted to speak to them. And these were the real
American girls, the product of the soil.

Lissa, said Nathan, when they were again in their saddles, Major
Andrews, who has charge of the government stores here, offers me a
position as bookkeeper in his office this fall and winter, and I think I
had perhaps better take it, as I can do little on the farm until spring.
What do you think?


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is conversational and descriptive. The tone is lighthearted and amused, and the point of view is third person limited.