Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Then suddenly they charged the place, driving the foremost men onward
from the rear, and even the quick thrust and stab of Muckle John
could not resist that reckless onslaught.  Within a few minutes the
heap of the dead and fallen men was up to their elbows in that narrow
place.

The voice of Strange urging on the fragments of his force now reached
them.  But only muttering curses and sullen voices followed, and with
a laugh, Muckle John whistled a Highland rant--a mischievous,
derisive tune, with a world of insolence in it.

It brought its reply, for even as he whistled, a single man came down
the black passage-way, staying his pace only when he stood within
sword-thrust.

"Muckle John," he said quietly.

The other ceased his whistling.

"At your service, Captain Strange," he replied, with a faint note of
amusement in his voice.

"Will you have it out with me, Muckle John?" went on Strange.  "Let
it be to the death, for they will never forgive me this night's work."

"Oho!" cried Muckle John.  "Here's a ploy!  Did they think that such
as you could take me?"

"Not you; but one whom you have sheltered, Heaven alone knows why.
Is he still here?"

"He left two hours ago and more.  You must search Lochaber, Captain
Strange.  I doubt you've made a sair muddle of this."

The moon was topping the hills, and a soft grey light stole suddenly
down the crags, and fell upon the face of Strange.

"What of your men?" asked Muckle John at last.

Strange gave a bitter laugh.

"They will not stir," he said, "and if they do, Rob here can hold the
pass."

"I am not an executioner," said Muckle John, "and I have only one
leg."

"Then I must say that Muckle John was mair glib with his tongue than
his sword.  But I will not say Muckle John--I will say..."

"Enough!  Let that name bide its time."

For a minute Muckle John remained silent, then limping towards the
flat place before the cave-mouth, he took a long draught of water.

"Come on, sir," he cried, "and you, Rob, guard the pass."

He saluted Strange, who had flung off his coat and rolled up his
sleeves, but suddenly he lowered his sword.

"Should I fall," he said, "what of Rob here?"

"He shall go free."

With that they fell to, and the rasping of steel upon steel was the
only sound in the grim silence.

Muckle John, supporting his weight upon one leg, foiled the vicious
thrusts of his opponent with steady endurance.  That Strange was a
skilled fencer of the rapier school he realized at once.  That he was
also cunning and agile he took for granted.

Had he been able to act on the offensive, and bring his vast strength
to the attack, no rapier play could have warded off his great blade
and iron arm, and yet the growing strain upon his sound ankle was
already telling.  He was like a man fighting against time.

With a feint Strange lunged for his neck--only a flicker of cold
steel, but Muckle John was a fraction of a second quicker, and his
opponent, recovering, crouched in the moonlight like a panther foiled
in its spring.

Rob, in the meantime, had striven to watch the passage; but no sign
of an attack came to set him on his guard, and few could have turned
their backs upon that fierce contest amongst the grey, watching crags.

For now Strange had changed his tactics, and strove to lure on Muckle
John and catch him off his balance; but there was more in it than
that, for nearing the moon sailed a belt of black cloud, and much can
be done by one active as a cat in the darkness.  But Muckle John was
also aware of the cloud and when it drifted over the moon, and they
were plunged in darkness, he turned silently to his right, and,
kneeling upon one knee, pointed his sword upwards, leaning meanwhile
upon his naked dirk.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Muckle John: a skilled swordsman with a quick wit, he is fighting Captain Strange
2. Captain Strange: a skilled fencer and cunning opponent, he is fighting Muckle John
3. Rob: a guard at the pass, he is watching the fight