Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
West sat on the edge of his bed and knew that he had been lucky to
break away before there could be more questions asked. So far, he was
certain, he'd answered those they asked without arousing too much
suspicion, but the longer a thing like that went on the more likely a
man was to make some slight mistake.

Now he would have time to think, time to try to untangle and put
together some of the facts as they now appeared.

One of the minor monstrosities that infested the place climbed the
bedpost and perched upon it, wrapping its long tail about it many
times. It chittered at West and West looked at it and shuddered,
wondering if it were making a face at him or if it really looked that
way.

These slithery, chittering things ... he'd heard of them somewhere
before. He knew that. He'd even seen pictures of them at some time.
Some other time and place, very long ago. Things like Annabelle and the
creature Cartwright had dumped off the chair and the little satanic
being that perched upon the bedstead.

That was funny, the thing Nevin had said about them ... _they keep
sneaking through_ ... not sneaking in, but through.

Nothing added up. Not even Nevin and Cartwright. For there was about
them some subtle tinge of character not human in its texture.

They had been working with hormones when something had happened that
occasioned the warning sent to Earth. Or had there been a warning? Had
the warning been a fake? Was there something going on here the Solar
government didn't want anyone to know?

Why had they sent Stella to Earth? Why were they so pleased that
she was so well received? What was it Nevin had asked ... and _the
government, it does not suspect_? Why should the government suspect?
What was there for it to suspect? Just a mindless creature that sang
like the bells of heaven.

That hormone business, now. Hormones did funny things to people.

I should know, said West, talking to himself.

A little faster and a little quicker. A mental shortcut here and there.
And you scarcely know, yourself, that you are any different. That's how
the race develops. A mutation here and another there and in a thousand
years or two a certain percentage of the race is not what the race had
been a thousand years before.

Maybe it was a mutation back in the Old Stone Age who struck two flints
together and made himself a fire. Maybe another mutant who dreamed up a
wheel and took a stoneboat and changed it to a wagon.

Slowly, he said, it would have to be slowly. Just a little at a time.
For if it were too much, if it were noticeable, the other humans would
kill off each mutation as it became apparent. For the human race cannot
tolerate divergence from the norm, even though mutation is the process
by which the race develops.

The race doesn't kill the mutants any more. It confines them to mental
institutions or it forces them into such dead-ends of expression as art
or music, or it finds nice friendly exiles for them, where they will
be comfortable and have a job to do and where, the normal humans hope,
they'll never know what they are.

It's harder to be different now, he thought, harder to be a mutant and
escape detection, what with the medical boards and the psychiatrists
and all the other scientific mumbo-jumbo the humans have set up to
guard their peace of mind.

Five hundred years ago, thought West, they would not have found me out.
Five hundred years ago I might not have realized the fact myself.

Controlled mutation? Now that was something different. That was the
thing the government had in mind when it sent the commission here to
Pluto, taking advantage of the cold conditions to develop hormones that
might mutate the race. Hormones that might make a better race, that
might develop latent talents or even add entirely new characteristics
calculated to bring out the best that was in humanity.

Controlled mutations, those were all right. It was only the wild
mutations that the government would fear.

What if the members of the commission had developed a hormone and tried
it on themselves?

His thought stopped short, pleased with the idea, with the possible
solution.

Upon the bedpost the little monstrosity fingered its mouth, slobbering
gleefully.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-West: the protagonist, a human from Earth who is part of a commission sent to Pluto. He is trying to make sense of the strange things he's seen and heard since arriving.
-The monstrosity: a small, slimy creature that infests West's room on Pluto. It has a long tail and chitters constantly.