What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
X
THE GHOSTS OF THE CABINET


My dear, I have come to invite you to a real materialistic seance,
said Mrs. Wylie, a few weeks later, as she called at the door of Mrs.
Luciens improved lodgings.

Mrs. Luciens eye brightened, and she clasped her hands with childish
naivete.

Really?

Yes, really! Mr. Wylie has an especial invitation and tickets given
him, so we shall not feel that we are intruding. He bade me come at once
and tell you, as he knew how much you desired to witness such an
exhibition.

How kind you are, dear Mrs. Wylie. I cannot express how grateful I am
to you for such an opportunity, said Mrs. Lucien warmly.

It is arranged, then; we will call for you at half-past seven this
evening. And Mrs. Wylie tripped away, feeling that she had at least
given pleasure by the invitation, little as she herself desired to
attend the seance. The lectures of Dr. Lyman, which she had attended to
please her husband, had rather prejudiced her against than converted to
his teaching, and she could not appreciate the interest which her
friends seemed to take in them. As for this seance, she would go that
Mrs. Lucien might have the desired privilege of attending, but her
conscience disapproved of it.

At the appointed time the trio took a carriage to Scoville Street as
directed, and stopped before a small story-and-a-half house, with an L
upon one side, and a broken paling in front.

I am bound to investigate everything thoroughly, said Mrs. Wylie, in a
whisper, as they went toward the house.

Certainly, that is your privilege, my dear. I am sure the spirits will
have no objections, said Mr. Wylie.

They were met at the door by a grave-looking man, who asked for their
credentials, and when Mr. Wylie had presented his card of invitation
they were ushered into a small square room furnished only by a centre
table holding a lamp, a little old-fashioned carpet lounge standing in
one corner, upon which two or three persons were seated conversing in
subdued tones, and a tall base-burner stove offering warmth to a small
group of people gathered about it.

No one spoke to the members of our party, who, while warming themselves
by the fire, gazed into an empty room adjoining. This room had only the
light of a single lamp fastened near the ceiling in one corner and
covered and shaded by a Japanese umbrella. A string depended from this
lamp to the cabinet in the opposite corner of the room. An antique,
black hair-cloth tete was near the cabinet, and a carved mahogany stand
stood between the only two windows in the room. The remaining space of
the apartment was taken up by chairs for the invited spectators.

All these separate details Mrs. Wylie observed and noted. Then she
turned to the man who admitted them.

Am I permitted to examine this room? she asked smilingly.

Certainly, madam, we court the most careful investigation in this
matter. Examine thoroughly everything in this room, and in a solemn
manner he conducted them forward to the cabinet and lifted the curtains
of plain black cloth which hung before it. Rolling these, he threw them
over the top of the pole, that she might enter the cabinet and explore
the interior.

Mrs. Wylie felt of the wall, which was covered with a faded paper;
tapped it to see if there were closets in the partition, pressed it to
learn if it was movable, examined for cracks or evidence of secret
panels, but could discover nothing. She even examined the carpet and saw
that the tacks holding it to the floor were rusted as if not recently
lifted or changed. She looked under and behind the tete, but could
discover no possible place of concealment in the room.

Are you satisfied, my curious Pandora? said Mr. Wylie, who had been
watching her with a faint, indulgent smile upon his lips.

Yes, I find only plain, bare walls, and no visible outlet, save by the
one door through which we entered.

Good! Perhaps your scepticism will vanish after to-night.

Mrs. Wylie shook her head and peered again at the ceiling and dependent
lamp. She was prepared for trickery, even if she could not fathom it.

Still unconvinced? Oh, most doubting of Thomases! said Mr. Wylie, with
a gesture of despair.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author achieves this by describing the room in which the seance will take place, and by introducing Mrs. Wylie, who is skeptical of the whole event.