Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Slowly the girl paled. "That was the most dangerous thing you could
have said. Just before he died Gale had to adopt stern measures. The
shaggy ones--we have always called them that--were getting out of
control. To them he is a terrifying, half-mythical symbol of wrath.

"You must believe me," she pleaded, as though aware of his thoughts.
"They have developed a peculiar tribal organization of their own.
They're like the savage tribes of Earth I've seen in the micro-films.
Wouldn't you regard them as dangerous?"

"Dangerous, yes," Sheldon said, slowly. "I wonder why he didn't kill
me. Why did he bring me here?"

"He did not want you to die," the girl said. "I told you they were like
savage children. A child may strike another child in a fit of rage and
not want him to die. When the shaggy ones are sick or injured they
come here, and I bind up their wounds, when their wounds are not too
grievous. To them this room is a place of healing."

"Then I was brought here to be healed."

"Yes." She was by the door now, pulling it open. "Follow me," she
pleaded. "Keep close to me, and if you see one of the shaggy ones try
not to look startled. It's best to ignore them. By now they're probably
swarming all over your ship, and wondering about you."

"I don't doubt that," Sheldon muttered, but made no protest.

The room opened on a narrow corridor suffused with cold light. It
seemed vaguely familiar. Suddenly Sheldon realized that he was close to
the three large rooms which Gale had occupied six months previously.

Six months or a century? Could a man lose track of time in the gulfs
between the stars? Could time sweep past, in some strange fashion
leaving him utterly untouched?

"Hurry," the girl whispered. "Keep close to me. They won't harm you if
we move like twin shadows in some secret dream!"

Sheldon turned and stared at her, amazed by the startlingly poetic
quality of her speech. Amazed as well by something warm and shining
that had crept into her glance. Almost it seemed as though a rose had
unfolded in his clasp and was filling the corridor with its fragrance.

A moment later they had passed the photo-electric heat cone which
guarded Gale's quarters, and were standing at a turn in the corridor.

"Straight ahead," the girl said. "The library's at the end of the
corridor."

"I--I thought it was on the level above," Sheldon muttered, dazedly.

The girl shook her head. "Gale may have moved it. I do not know. Many
of the rooms have been moved since mother was a little girl. But I do
not remember about the library."

Withdrawing his gaze from the massive door which loomed behind the heat
cone Sheldon turned, and followed her down a narrower corridor to where
another cone loomed in shadows.

To his dismay his companion walked straight toward the cone without
stopping to cut the beam.

"Look out!" he warned. "You'll be seared."

The girl swung about, her eyes widening in puzzlement. "What do you
mean?" she asked.

"The photo-electric circuit which activates the cone!" Sheldon's voice
was choked. "You started to walk right through it."

"Well?"

"You'll be seared to a crisp unless you cut that circuit with a
combination disk. Haven't you got one?"

For answer the girl turned and advanced toward the door with her
shoulders squared.

She was within a foot of the beam when Sheldon leapt toward her, swung
her about and dragged her forcibly backwards.

The next moment her lips were glued to his, her arms having gone up
to encircle his shoulders. It was a miracle so unexpected that for an
instant he stood as though frozen.

Then he was holding her tightly and smoothing her hair as he returned
her caresses in full measure, a man fiercely, crazily, primitively in
love with a girl whose name he did not even know.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Sheldon and the girl are in a corridor when Sheldon realizes that they are close to the three rooms that Gale occupied six months ago. The girl tells Sheldon that the library is down the corridor, and Sheldon is surprised to find that it is on the same level as the other rooms. As they walk, Sheldon warns the girl not to walk into the photo-electric heat cone that is guarding Gale's quarters. The girl does not listen and walks into the beam, but Sheldon manages to pull her out in time. They continue down the corridor and Sheldon is amazed when the girl walks straight into the next photo-electric heat cone. He manages to pull her out again and they share a passionate kiss.