Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
It was Madame Torialli who suggested to Louis that they should have
supper at once instead of waiting until after the Revue. Flaubert was
almost too crushed to accept the suggestion and to send out appropriate
excuses to the princes.

The guests rallied a little under the approach of food. The princes
came in rather sulkily, but as they found some particular friends in
the dining-room they recovered enough to behave a little worse than
anyone had quite expected, which was gratifying to Flaubert, for they
only behaved well when they were bored. A famous _danseuse_ who had
just arrived was quite shocked; she was accustomed to quieter manners.
Only Madame Toriallis untroubled child-like blue eyes remained as
serene as ever. She took the boisterously pronounced attention of
Prince Ivan and his roars of laughter with an air of such perfect
blandness and self-possession as to rob his behaviour of half its
barbarism.

Una and the Lion, the Marquis de Trvaillant pointed out to Romain
DUcelles. Romain lifted his eyebrows and looked at Madame Torialli.

Ah, my dear Marquis, he said. Did Una first incite the Lion before
she tamed him?

You see too much, said his friend.

Romain laughed.

That robs my speech of half its sting, he murmured. One need say so
little, you know, if one has been fortunate enough to see too much!

Jean overheard his uncle and hated him. He felt that he must speak or
die.

Madame Torialli is trying to save the situation, my uncle, he said
stiffly. Romain laughed.

Ah! Is that you, my dear Jean? he said. Surely it must be, one
cannot have two such ingenuous nephews! You must not think I underrate
your clever friend. She is one of those kind-hearted women who are
so fond of saving situations that they create them first. It is the
true instinct of the reformer! Our charming ancestress Eve, now, I
fancy, had the same motive in urging the fruit upon Adam. She had no
opportunity, you see, to raise his nature until after the fall! Think
of it! Eternity in a garden with a good man! What a horrible idea! It
is enough to intrigue any woman!

_Farceur!_ laughed the Marquis de Trvaillant. And now we have
eaten, what happens next? It is another hour before the Revue can
begin. What a tedious affair! And these artists of yours, when do they
come, Monsieur DUcelles?

Flaubert has just sent a message to hurry them, said Jean over his
shoulder, as he hastened away to where Flaubert was beckoning him.

What can I do? What can I do? moaned the distracted Louis. You must
go and play, but I doubt if they will listen to you for an hour--if
only you could sing comic songs!

Jean glanced round the decorated dining-room, the tables loaded with
delicate foods, the rich and exquisite dresses of the women, the
carefully valeted men with their well-cut evening clothes, and the
weary, hard, cruel faces! It seemed to him as if these over-civilized
and pampered creatures had reverted in heart to the lowest level of
nature, and as if their life had become the mere struggle of wild
beasts for temporary desires--creatures all teeth and claws for their
particular morsel of prey! Fortunately at this moment the artists were
announced and good-naturedly offered to postpone their own suppers
until after the Revue.

The Revue began in the most brilliant manner; everybody on the stage
was anxious, self-conscious, and jealous; every one in the audience
was amused. These were their best friends making themselves ridiculous
under the impression that they were appearing particularly attractive;
what more could an audience want? Prince Ivan and Prince Rudolph
fulfilled every ones expectation of the absurd. Prince Ivan managed to
fall over a footstool which had been most carefully placed out of his
way as far as possible, and swore audibly in the middle of his song.
Prince Rudolph forgot his stage directions, and turned his back to the
audience so that his voice floated away into somebody elses garden.
Still, considering they were royalty, they managed very well and were
immensely applauded.

The _femmes du monde_ danced beautifully; at least they wore
practically nothing and moved about the stage very gracefully while
some one was playing the piano.

The famous _danseuse_ was overheard remarking that as far as she could
see they might just as well have executed that kind of dance in the
bathroom to the noise of a hot-water tap; but that was put down to
professional jealousy.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is light and satirical. The author is making fun of the guests and their behavior. The tone is one of amusement, and the point of view is third person omniscient.