Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Why? he asked, and I saw his eyes narrow as he awaited my reply.

Was it mental telepathy or just luck that put the right answer in my
mouth, for somehow, intuitively, I seemed to grasp what was in the
creatures mind.

Our flesh is poison, I said, those who eat it die.

He looked at me then for a long time, with an expression upon his face
which I could not interpret. It may have been that he doubted my word,
or again, it may have been that my reply confirmed his suspicion, I do
not know; but presently he asked me another question.

Are there many like you in the land where you live?

Millions upon millions, I replied.

And what do they eat?

They eat fruits and vegetables and the flesh of animals, I answered.

What animals? he asked.

I have seen no animals here like them, I replied, but there are many
kinds unlike us, so that we do not have to eat flesh of our own race.

Then you have all the flesh that you want?

All that we can eat, I replied. We raise these animals for their
flesh.

Where is your country? he demanded. Take me to it.

I smiled. I cannot take you to it, I said. It is upon another world.

It was quite evident that he did not believe me, for he scowled at me
ferociously.

Do you wish to die? he demanded.

I told him that I had no such longing.

Then you will lead me to your country, he said, where there is plenty
of flesh for everyone. You may think about it until I send for you
again. Go! And thus he dismissed me. Then he sent for Orthis, but what
Orthis told him, I never knew exactly, for he would not tell me, and as
our relations, even in our captivity, were far from friendly, I did not
urge him to any confidences. I had occasion to notice, however, that
from that time Ga-va-go indicated a marked preference for Orthis, and
the latter was often called to his hut.

I was momentarily expecting to be summoned in to Ga-va-gos presence,
and learn my fate, when he discovered that I could not lead him to my
country, where flesh was so plentiful. But at about this time we broke
camp, and in the press of other matters, he evidently neglected to take
any further immediate action in my case, or at least, so I thought,
until I later had reason to suspect that he felt that he need no longer
depend upon me to lead him to this land of milk and honey.

The Va-gas are a nomadic race, moving hither and thither, either as they
are pressed by some foes, or till their victories have frightened away
the other tribes from their vicinity, in either of which events, they
march in search of fresh territory. The move that we made now was
necessitated by the fact that all the other tribes nearby had fled
before the ferocity of the No-vans, whose repeated and successful raids
had depleted the villages of their neighbors and filled them with
terror.

The breaking of camp was a wonderfully simple operation. All their few
belongings, consisting of extra clothing, trappings, weapons, and their
treasured skulls and bones of victims, were strapped to the backs of the
women. Orthis and I each bestrode a warrior detailed by Ga-va-go for the
purpose of transporting us, and we filed out of the village, leaving the
huts behind.

Ga-va-go, with a half-dozen warriors, galloped far ahead. Then came a
strong detachment of warriors, with the women folks behind them, another
detachment of warriors following in the rear of the women and children,
while others rode upon either flank. A mile or so in the rear, came
three warriors, and there were two or three scattered far out on either
flank. Thus we moved, thoroughly protected against surprise, regulating
our speed by that of the point with which Ga-va-go traveled.

Because of the women and the children, we moved more slowly than
warriors do when on the march alone, when they seldom, if ever, travel
slower than a trot, and more generally, at a fast gallop. We moved along
a well-worn trail, passing several deserted villages, from which the
prey of the No-vans had fled. We crossed many rivers, for the lunar
world is well watered. We skirted several lakes, and at one point of
high ground, I saw, far at our left, the waters of what appeared to be a
great ocean.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the protagonist, a captive of the Va-gas, being interrogated by Ga-va-go, the chief of the Va-gas. Ga-va-go is trying to determine if the protagonist can lead him to a land where there is plenty of flesh to eat. The protagonist tells Ga-va-go that he cannot lead him to such a land, as it is on another world. Ga-va-go is skeptical, but decides to let the protagonist live for now.
The Va-gas are a nomadic people, and they soon break camp and begin moving to a new location. The protagonist is transported by a Va-ga warrior, and they travel with the rest of the Va-gas, who are well-protected against surprise attacks. They travel for some time, crossing rivers and skirting lakes, until they reach a high point from which the protagonist can see the waters of a great ocean.