Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
He drew in a long draught of air through his nostrils, and in a
flash--before he knew what had happened, he had sneezed.  A roar of
brutal laughter greeted the penetrating noise, and a voice cried out
beside him:

"Two to one on the snuff, Jerry; I've won the wager," and he was
dragged to his feet.

Rob opened his eyes now that the worst was come.  He would meet his
end as bravely as he could.  Four English soldiers were seated upon a
pile of dead Highlanders, and another held him by the arm.  He saw
that there was little chance of mercy written on their brutal faces.
Memories of Prestonpans and Falkirk were too sore for that.

"Well, my gamecock," said the man who held him, "so you are not so
dead after all.  What shall it be?  A little bullet from a pistol, or
a dig with one of your own claymores--more homelike that, eh?"

Rob kept silence.  He could not understand a word they said in their
queer, nasal twang.  Vainly his eyes searched the desolate,
wind-swept moor.  The clash of battle was long since past.  No hope
of friendly succour lay there.

"Haste ye!" cried one of the four men who sat together.  "There is
other work.  Pistol him and be done with it."

At that the fellow who held Rob stepped back a pace, and drawing his
pistol, raised it and fired deliberately at him.  Had Rob not ducked
it would have killed him as he stood.

"A miss!" cried the others, and with an exclamation the man snatched
a loaded pistol from one of his comrades, and prepared to finish the
business.

Rob stood very still this time.  He was too weak to run.  The sooner
it was all over the better.

The man was poising the pistol in his hand; he had shut one eye, and
was glaring at Rob with the other.  Already the trigger was moving,
when a stern voice shouted "Halt!" and an English officer, very
resplendently dressed, and with a white peruke, snatched the pistol
from the man's hand.  The other four staggered to their feet, and
stood at attention.

The officer, whose back was turned on Rob, appeared to stare for a
moment at the soldiers.  Then, throwing the pistol upon the ground,
he folded his arms and began to speak with a strong English accent,
as baffling to Rob as that of his captors.

"What does this mean?" he cried.  "Would you shoot a wounded boy?"

"Our orders were no quarter," growled the man who had so nearly
killed Rob.

"Take your orders from me," thundered the officer in a blaze of
anger, "or there will be more gibbets in Inverness than you had
reckoned upon, and with fine, red-coated gentry upon them belike," at
which Rob saw the fellows stir uneasily, and cast apprehensive
glances at one another.

Apparently satisfied by the fear he had put upon them, the officer
pointed to a horse wandering aimlessly about the moor, his reins
about his knees.

"Fetch that horse," said he; "my beast was shot from under me an hour
since."

Two of the men darted off, only too glad to win his favour, and all
the time the officer stood with his back to Rob--a great, square
figure, with a broad tear across the middle of his doublet and the
long hair showing beneath his peruke.  The soldiers caught the horse
without difficulty, and returned with it.  It was a dragoon charger,
a great grey, raking beast, strong and sound.

Taking the reins in his hands, the officer turned again to the men.

"Mayhap you cannot guess whom you so nearly shot," said he darkly.

They shook their heads in an awed silence.

"Then ask in Inverness," he replied, and vaulted into the saddle.

"Now," he went on, "hand that boy up here.  He's no prisoner for such
as you."

In a moment, two of the soldiers caught up Rob and placed him in
front of the saddle, so that he sat upon the horse's withers.

Then gathering up the reins they walked slowly away, leaving the
soldiers at the salute.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very formal and stiff. The dialogue is stilted and the characters seem to be speaking in a very stilted, old-fashioned way. There is a lot of description of the characters and their surroundings, and the action is described in great detail.