Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
X

A RETURN STROKE


Vivid memories remained in Fays mind as he reached the great Htel de
Ville and turned toward the hostel where he had left the little silver
greyhound.

The key to the dye cipher was safe with him. The blundering attempts of
Dutch Gus and the German crooks to obtain this key showed that pressure
had been applied from some quarter. The attack upon the embassys safe
on the same evening of arrival proved that the German gang had wind that
Scotland Yard was on the case.

Dutch Gus had failed and the matter was closed, thought Fay. He felt
rather kindly for MacKeenons fortunate trip-up. He glanced over his
shoulder as he passed out of the shadow of the Htel de Ville. He heard,
as he walked on tiptoes, the far-off braying of the police who had most
certainly lost his trail.

A bell still tolled within the city. A light showed here and there. For
the most part, however, the way was through dreaming street and
snug-wrapped houses whose drawn shutters seemed like night-caps.

Fay sniffed the morning fog and found it laden with promise. It served
as a mantle and a cloak. It would be hours before the Lowland sun broke
through the mist. By then, he figured on being far from the scene of the
robbery. There was nothing whatsoever to be gained by remaining in
Holland. He had decided to deliver the cipher-key to Sir Richard
Colstrom at the house of the Two Lions in West London. At that same time
he would demand a full pardon and the freedom to live by no mans leave
as long as it was within the law.

Old scores would be paid. The way was bright. He searched his mind for
any overlooked trifles. There seemed none. He went on, turned a corner
and crossed a dark street. He knocked boldly upon the stout door of the
hotel.

A second and a third knock brought no answer. A fourth, however, was
followed by footfalls inside and then the sudden lifting of a sash. Fay
stepped back to the curb-line and glanced upward. The moon-broad face of
the proprietor was beaming down upon him. A night cap was on his head.

The doctor! said Fay with easy assurance. Come, let me in!

Fay heard an exclamation concerning the British and the hours they kept.
The sash went down. The proprietor appeared at the door with his great
keys jingling like some grotesque St. Nicholas.

Beastly night, said Fay, passing him and climbing the stairs.

He opened his door and stepped into his room. He found a candle near the
wash place where he had burned Sir Richards note. Shading his eyes, he
stooped and glanced beneath the bureau. The thin cake of soap, wherein
he had pressed the silver greyhound, was within the dust. He reached and
secured this with a swift motion. He stood in the center of the room and
turned it in his fingers.

There was much to do and little time to do it in. The police of the city
could not be rated as total fools. The work at the embassy showed a
foreign mind. No man in Holland was capable of opening an inner keister
without leaving a trace. Fay broke the cake of soap, took out the
insignia and pinned it to his left lapel. He moved toward the bed. It
was his intention to place the tools he carried in the bag, wait until
the proprietor was slumbering, and then make his way out into the
streets and away from the town. There were the quays. Ships sailed and
steamed for many ports. Freedom went to the bold!

He had stepped half across the room when a sound in the hall caused him
to poise on his toes with his hand held rigid before him. He waited with
every sense alert. The sound was repeated. It was the soft fall of
steps. There was also the swish of skirts. They rustled silkily and out
of place in that hotel.

The door opened slightly. Fay cursed himself for not locking it. Another
trifle had come up. He whipped his hand down to his right coat pocket
and coiled his fingers about the butt of the American automatic as he
lifted its barrel inch by inch.

The door kept opening. It revealed the edge of a purple hat, a shoulder
and then the olive features of Saidee Isaacs. She stepped in and pressed
the door shut. She turned with her skirts swishing.

Did you get it? she asked.

Fay was mute for once in his life. He figured the turn of events as he
watched her eyes change color and grow soft. She had hired the auto
belonging to the hotel upon her arrival in Holland. It was natural that
she should stop at the same hotel after her vain appeal on the quay.
Perhaps she had hoped against hope that he would return to the cipher
quest.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-Fay reaches the Htel de Ville and remembers the events of the past few days
-He decides to deliver the key to the cipher to Sir Richard Colstrom in London, and also demands a pardon
-On his way out of the hotel, he is stopped by Saidee Isaacs
-She asks if he was able to get the key, and he says nothing