Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"Now there's yourself, Mr. Cooper, and your friend that I haven't
seen; you've made a lucky dive at the fields, and you're tired of
gold-digging.  I don't blame you.  You want to turn farmer in
earnest.  On a small scale you are a capitalist.  Well, mind, you're
going to play a game, in which the very first movement may settle you
for good or evil.

"Go to Brisbane.  Don't believe the chaps here.  Go straight away up,
and take time a bit, and look round.  Don't buy a pig in a poke.
Hundreds do.  There's a lot of people whose interest is to sell A1
claims, and a shoal of greenhorns with capital who want to buy.  Now
listen.  Maybe not one of these have any experience.  They see
speculation in each other's eyes; and if one makes a grab, the other
will try to be before him, and very likely the one that lays hold is
hoisted.  Let me put it in another way.  Hang a hook, with a nice
piece of pork on it, overboard where there are sharks.  Everyone
would like the pork, but everyone is shy and suspicious.  Suddenly a
shark, with more speculation in his eye than the others, prepares for
a rush, and rather than he shall have it all the rest do just the
same, and the lucky one gets hoisted.  It's that way with catching
capitalists.  So I say again, Look before you leap.  Don't run after
bargains.  They may be good, but----  This young fellow here has some
knowledge of English farming.  Well, that is good in its way, very
good; and he has plenty of muscle, and is willing to work, that is
better.  If he were all alone, I'd tell him to go away to the Bush
and shear sheep, build fences, and drive cattle for eighteen months,
and keep his eyes wide open, and his ears too, and he'd get some
insight into business.  As it is, you're all going together, and
you'll all have a look at things.  You'll see what sort of stock the
country is suited for--sheep, or cattle, or both; if it is exposed,
or wet, or day, or forest, or all together.  And you'll find out if
it be healthy for men and stock, and not 'sour' for either; and also
you'll consider what markets are open to you.  For there'd be small
use in rearing stock you couldn't sell.  See?"

"Yes," said Bob; "I see a lot of difficulties in the way I hadn't
thought of."

"Go warily then, and the difficulties will vanish.  I think I'll go
with you to Brisbane," added Winslow, after a pause.  "I'm getting
sick already of civilized life."

Etheldene threw her arms round her father's neck.

"Well, birdie, what is it?  'Fraid I go and leave you too long?"

"You mustn't leave me at all, father.  I'm sometimes sick of
civilized life.  I'm going with you wherever you go."

That same evening after dinner, while Etheldene was away somewhere
with her new friend--showing him, I think, how to throw the
boomerang--Winslow and Archie sat out in the verandah looking at the
stars while they sipped their coffee.

Winslow had been silent for a time, suddenly he spoke.

"I'm going to ask you a strange question, youngster," he said.

"Well, sir?" said Archie.

"Suppose I were in a difficulty, from what you have seen of me would
you help me out if you could?"

"You needn't ask, sir," said Archie.  "My uncle's friend."

"Well, a fifty-pound note would do it."

Archie had his uncle's draft still with him.  He never said a word
till he had handed it to Winslow, and till this eccentric individual
had crumpled it up, and thrust it unceremoniously, and with only a
grunt of thanks, into one of his capacious pockets.

"But," said Archie, "I would rather you would not look upon it as a
loan.  In fact, I am doubting the evidence of my senses.  You--with
all the show of wealth I see around me--to be in temporary need of a
poor, paltry fifty pounds!  Verily, sir, this is the land of
contrarieties."

Winslow simply laughed.

"You have a lot to learn yet," he said, "my young friend; but I
admire your courage, and your generous-heartedness, though not your
business habits."

Archie and Bob paid many a visit to Wistaria Grove--the name of
Winslow's place--during the three weeks previous to the start from
Sydney.

One day, when alone with Archie, Winslow thrust an envelope into his
hands.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is conversational and colloquial. The tone is friendly and relaxed. The point of view is third person limited.