Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The Or-tis was trembling with disappointment and rage. He laid a hand
upon the hilt of his sword and took a step toward me; but whatever he
intended, he thought better of it and stopped. Take him above, he
snapped to my guard; and to The Butcher in the morning. I will be
present, he said to me, to see your head roll into the dust and your
carcass fed to the pigs.

They took me from the chamber then and led me up and up along an endless
stairway, or at least it seemed endless before we finally reached the
highest floor of the great tent. There they pushed me into a chamber the
doorway to which was guarded by two giant warriors.

Squatted upon the floor of the chamber, his back leaning against the
wall, was a Kalkar. He glanced up at me as I entered, but said nothing.
I looked about the bare chamber, its floor littered with the dust and
debris of ages, its walls stained by the dirt and grease from the bodies
that had leaned against it, to the height of a man. I approached one of
the apertures in the front wall. Far below me, like a narrow buckskin
thong, lay the trail filled with tiny people and horses no bigger than
rabbits. I could see the pigs rooting in the filththey and the dogs
are the scavengers of the camp.

For a long time I stood looking out over what was to me a strange
landscape. The tent in which I was confined was among the highest of the
nearer structures of the ancients, and from its upper floor I could see
a vast expanse of tent roofs, some of the structures apparently in an
excellent state of preservation, while here and there a grass-grown
mound marked the site of others that had fallen. Evidences of fire and
smoke were numerous and it was apparent that whatever the ancients had
built of other materials than their enduring stone had long since
disappeared, while many of the remaining buildings had been gutted by
flame and left mere shells, as was attested by hundreds of
smoke-blackened apertures within the range of my vision.

As I stood gazing out over distant hills beyond the limits of the camp I
became aware of a presence at my elbow. Turning I saw that it was the
Kalkar whom I had seen sitting against the wall as I entered the
chamber.

Look well, Yank, he said, in a not unpleasant voice, for you have not
long to look. He was smiling grimly. We have a wonderful view from
here, he continued; on a clear day you can see the ocean and the
island.

I should like to see the ocean, I said.

He shook his head. You are very near, he said, but you will never see
it. I should like to see it again, myself; but I shall not.

Why? I asked.

I go with you to The Butcher in the morning, he replied, simply.

You?

Yes, I.

And why?

Because I am a true Or-tis, he replied.

Why should they send an Or-tis to The Butcher? I demanded. It is not
strange that an Or-tis should send me, _the_ Julian; but why should an
Or-tis send an Or-tis?

He is not a true Or-tis who sends me, replied the man, and then he
laughed.

Why do you laugh?

Is it not a strange joke of Fate, he cried, that sees _the_ Julian
and _the_ Or-tis going to The Butcher together? By the blood of my
sires! I think our feud be over, Julian, at least so far as you and I
are concerned.

It can never be over, Kalkar, I replied.

He shook his head. Had my father lived and carried out his plans, I
think it might have ended, he insisted.

While an Or-tis and a Julian lived? Never!

You are young, and the hate that has been suckled into you and yours
from your mothers breasts for ages runs hot in your veins; but my
father was old and he saw things as few of my kind, I imagine, ever have
seen them. He was a kindly man and very learned, and he came to hate the
Kalkars and the horrid wrong the first Or-tis did the world and our
people when he brought them hither from the Moon, even as you and yours
have hated them always. He knew the wrong and he wished to right it.
Already he had planned means whereby he might get into communication
with the Julians and join with them in undoing the crime that our
ancestor committed upon the world. He was Jemadar, but he would have
renounced his throne to be with his own kind again. Our blood strain is
as clear as yourswe are Americans. There is no Kalkar or half-breed
blood in our veins. There are perhaps a thousand others among us who
have brought down their birthright unsullied. These he would have
brought with him, for they all were tired of the Kalkar beasts.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very formal and descriptive. The narrator is third person omniscient, and the tone is one of suspense and foreboding.