What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The road, an endless white ribbon, sparkled softly in the light of the
moon. It slipped beneath our wheels as the car whirled along at a giddy
pace. And every time we turned a corner I learned how amazingly sure
were the hands of the woman who was driving me.

The whole thing had happened so quickly that when I was once more in a
condition to take things in we had already done quite sixty miles. Then
Aurora's expression, "I shall be back by this time tomorrow," came to
mind, and I realized in a flash that in a few short hours I should be
separated from the Grand Duchess.

I did not rebel. The prodigious speed at which we were going lulled me
into a kind of helpless torpor which soon developed a curious bliss of
its own. Dark clumps of trees and funny little switchback bridges over
silvery rivers fled behind us. We passed a cart laden high with hay: a
few inches more to the left would have meant death. Death. I uttered
that word and glanced at Aurora's set face. Her gauntleted fingers
looked like thin, white bars on the steering wheel.

Suddenly my thoughts turned to the war. Was it really a fact? How should
I find my country? I confess to my shame that such was the intoxication
of speed, so great its power of tearing me from myself that I could not
concentrate my mind on that dreadful thought. At that hour I was wholly
indifferent to what the future might have in store for me.

A shaded electric lamp showed up every detail of the map, but Aurora
hardly looked at it once. She knew the way by heart I remember her
telling me that she had passed that way many a time when going to take
the waters.

She knew exactly at what point to make a detour round the towns whose
red halo emerged from the darkness to right and left, grew before our
eyes, was overtaken and disappeared in the night. Three or four times
she muttered: Cassel, Giessen, Wetzlar!

Cassel, Giessen, Wetzlar! What did I care?

The light from the lamp lit up a clock near the speedometer. But I could
not see the time. Thought had deserted me....

Without slowing down we went through a hilly town with houses hidden
among dark clumps of trees.

"Wiesbaden," murmured Aurora. "My villa," she remarked as we passed one
of these houses. "It's not yet one o'clock. We have come very well."

She turned to the right where the road forked. Far away on the left the
lights of a big city glowed in the night sky.

"That's Mainz," she said, "and here's the Rhine."

At top speed we crossed the sacred river by a suspension bridge. A dull
roar came up from below. Here and there, where the darkness was less
intense, we could see its green waters.

At the far end of the bridge we thought we heard an order. A hoarse,
"Who goes there!" Then, unmistakably, the sharp sound of a shot.

"They fired at us," said Aurora. "We must be getting near the frontier.
We must be a little more careful now."

I looked at the compass. We were going due west. The speedometer
registered 70. For the first time I had a real shock.

Aurora saw it and smiled.

"We were going 90 between Wetzlar and Wiesbaden," was all she said.

Soon another red glow appeared in the west.

"Thionville," said Aurora. "It must be crammed with troops."

To my great surprise I observed that she made no attempt to avoid this
town, as she had avoided the others. Our lamps were now lit and we were
making straight for the fortress, whose walls mounted higher and higher
into the sky.

The car slowed down. We passed houses, suburbs. Then came an imperious,
"Who goes there!" We stopped.

A dozen soldiers surrounded us. All of them were wearing the grey-green
uniform and covered helmet.

"Your papers," said the rough voice of a non-commissioned officer.

"I will show them to your officer," replied Aurora. "Please go and fetch
him."

He arrived in due course. He was a kind of blonde giant, very angry at
being disturbed in his sleep. When he saw we were civilians, politeness
vanished from his questions.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author also establishes the conflict in this scene.