Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
It came swiftly at him, and just as he was reaching out, to ward
himself from the pointed nose, there was a coughing thud, and something
brushed by him in a blast of bubbles and went on. Then, with many sharp
knocks on head, ribs, and knuckles, he was sucked with the inrush of
water squarely into the open tube that had just discharged its torpedo.
He heard a clang behind him, the shutting of the forward tube door,
then a whistling sound; then he felt the pressure of air on his face
and with a groan of thanksgiving he expelled the long breath he had
taken above, and drew it into his lungs. But the pressure had nearly
burst his ear drums before the tube was emptied of water, and the inner
door was opened. With a gasping call for help, he crawled and hitched
along the tube and men reached in to him. They pulled him out into the
lighted handling room, where, too weak to stand, he fell to the floor,
breathing in deep, convulsive gasps.

A man brought a bottle, lifted his head, and poured a generous portion
of some stimulant down his throat. Felton had just strength to swallow,
and it warmed and aroused him. He sat up and, being a torpedo expert,
had little difficulty in assimilating his first impressions. He was
acquainted with submarines; there was the tube from which he had
emerged, beside it the air flasks and trimming tanks. Amidships the
vertical and horizontal steering gear, and aft the engine and motor.
In this much the craft resembled the conventional submarine that he
knew. But there was this difference--that he noted when able to turn
his head. The boat was stiffened with upright stanchions of about the
size and length of the stanchions in the airship, and placed in about
the same position along the sides. Another similarity struck him at his
first glance around; and he wondered why he had not remarked it in the
airship; the air flasks, trimming tanks, and spare torpedoes arranged
along the sides, occupied the same relative positions as did the steel
cylinders in the other, while the steering gear of both was amidships
and the motive power aft.

"What have you caught this time, Bill?" called a voice from the
wheel--a strangely familiar voice.

"Dunno," answered the man with the flask. "It's a sheep, I think, or
maybe a dog; but it looks something like a horse. Have another drink,
and tell us what you are."

Felton did not refuse a second draught. It brought him to his feet.

"I'm a man," he answered with spirit. "Are you guying me--in this
exigency? I'm near dead."

"He says he's a man, sir," called the man.

"All right. Send him aft."

Felton was pushed, rather than led, to the man amidships.

"How do you do?" he said kindly. "So, you thought you'd visit us. We
catch all our fish this way."

"My God, captain," answered Felton, "I'm not visiting! I jumped out of
an airship, and was sucked into your tube. I'm glad I'm alive."

And then--was the liquor affecting his brain?--the captain's face,
line for line, feature for feature, was the face of the captain of the
airship, whom last he had seen sprawling above him in mid-air. Had he
beaten him down, and been picked up first? It seemed impossible.

"How--what--how--" he stammered, rubbing his eyes. "How did you get
here, captain? You jumped after me."

"I jumped after you? You are wandering. I saw you all jump, through the
periscope, but I was here."

"Then it's the closest resemblance I ever saw. You're the living image
of the airship's commander, or else it's the liquor. My head feels
queer."

"No doubt. But it's not the liquor. You've had a terrible experience.
It's a wonder the jump didn't kill you, as well as affect your mind."

Felton was not satisfied with the explanation. It was a strange and
striking resemblance, nothing more; and he was about to say as much
when a man came forward from the engine with an oil can. He was the
duplicate in face and form of the man he had pommeled, but without the
contusions. Felton blinked in amazement, then looked at the others,
whom, in the agitation of his entrance, he had not closely observed.
Man for man--nine in all--they duplicated the crew of the airship.

"My God," he stuttered. "Am I mad, or drunk?" His brain reeled, and,
as it had reeled before, in the social life of a naval officer, he
ascribed it to the liquor.

"You've drugged me," he yelled insanely. "Every man here is a double of
another."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of the surreal. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of confusion and bewilderment.