Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Reluctantly she pointed to the spring. It was in an arroyo nearly a
quarter of a mile distant.

Robert forgot to get water before he left. Hesaway looking for
work, she explained with a slight tremor of the lips.

He liked her better for the little lie. Scot guessed that Dodson had not
been at the camp for several days. He had seen the man in town yesterday
drunk, and again to-day sleeping under an empty wagon in a vacant lot.
It was a safe bet that Mollie Dodson carried the water for the family
use.

Scot returned with the water and made a batch of biscuits and some hot
coffee. While she ate he put rice on to boil.

When he looked at her he saw tears in her brown eyes. She was choking
over the food and trying to prevent him from seeing it. He decided that
this was a time for plain talk.

I reckon I can guess how you feel, he said gently. But thats not the
right angle to look at this thing. Back where you come from persons that
take help from others arewell, they dont hold their heads up. But
this is the West, a new country. The camps short of food. It cant be
bought in the market unless you know the ropes. We share with each other
here. In a kind of way were all one big family. Im your big brother,
and Im certainly going to see this baby is fed proper.

She murmured something he could not catch for the break in her voice. He
bustled about the fire cheerfully and let her alone till she had
regained control of herself.

By which time Hugh and Vicky arrived, that long-legged young lady
skipping on the hilltops, with high-pitched voluble comment.

Looky. Looky here, Sister Mollie, what I got, she cried in her eager
breathless fashion. He got it for me, MisterMister Santa Claus. One
finger pointed straight at Hugh while she held out for the inspection of
her sister a doll with blue eyes and flaxen hair.

Oh, but you shouldntyou ought not, Mollie protested to the boy.
Did she ask you for it?

No, maam. I wanted to get it for her. It was the only doll for sale in
Virginia, far as I know. I been hankerin to buy that doll. Now I feel a
heap better.

Vicky herself was so clearly in a seventh heaven of delight that her
sister had not the heart to say anything more about it. But she was
uneasy in her mind. She wondered if their obligations to these young men
would never end. What would Rob say? How would he make her pay for the
charity he had forced her to accept?

In the days that followed she had occasion many times to feel weighted
by the kindnesses of Scot McClintock. Hugh had departed to report for
duty with the express company, but his brother made it a point to see
that the little family in the prairie schooner did not lack for food.

He hunted the caons and brought back a young buck deer with him. One
hind quarter of it went to Mollie Dodson to keep the pot boiling. Fish,
rabbits, a prairie hen, three dozen eggs brought by a rancher all the
way from Honey Lake Valley; these and other delicacies were forced upon
the protesting woman.

Robert Dodsons attitude was one of sneering suspicion. He was willing
that another man should supply his family with the food it needed, but
he was mean enough to jeer at his wife and bully her because of it. Even
while he ate the meat brought by McClintock his tongue was a whip that
lashed Mollie and the man. His whole attitude implied that the two were
carrying on a clandestine love affair.

Mollie wept herself to sleep more nights than one. By nature a dependent
woman, she did not now know which way to turn. Her husband was a broken
reed. He no longer even pretended to be looking for work. Humiliating
though it was, she had to accept Scots favours. She could not let the
family starve. A thousand times Robert Dodson had trampled her pride and
affection in the dust. She knew that life with him held nothing for her,
but it must go on through the long gray years that stretched ahead till
the end of things. She was not the sort of woman to contemplate suicide
with any fortitude. Both the courage and the cowardice for it she
lacked.

Scot returned from the Dodson camp one day, lips close set and eyes
dangerously lit with a smouldering fire. Mollie was nursing a black eye.
She had fallen, she told him, against the corner of the wagon. He had
not believed her when she told this tremulous lie. But Vicky had settled
the matter past doubt. She was waiting for him in a little gulch near
the camp, waiting to tell him in a burst of impotent childish passion
that Dodson had beaten Mollie because she did not have supper ready for
him when he came home hours after the fire was out.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Scot McClintock returns to the Dodson camp to find Mollie nursing a black eye. She tells him she fell against the corner of the wagon, but he does not believe her. Vicky tells him that Dodson beat her because she did not have supper ready for him when he came home. Scot is angry and decides to confront Dodson. He finds him in a vacant lot, drunk and sleeping under an empty wagon. Scot tells him to stop beating Mollie and to leave the camp. Dodson refuses, so Scot beats him up and tells him to leave again. This time Dodson leaves and does not return.