What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
It turned out just as he prophesied. Even while they were eating they
knew from various signs that the boat was sinking. The intake of water
filling the tanks could be plainly heard; and then besides the engines
had ceased working. While it was always possible for the submarine to
dive when in motion, still as a rule the skipper preferred to take his
dip while stationary.

Once below and they were able to steer any course they pleased, by the
aid of their compass, which worked just as well then as when the boat
rode on the surface.

By now the boys were beginning to grow a little accustomed to some of
the experiences that had seemed so marvelous to them at first.

Taking it all in all it was very comfortable there in that snug
little saloon, where the captain and the three boys ate their meals.
Considerable ducking had to be indulged in so as to avoid knocking
their heads, which Ballyhoo seemed to be particularly addicted to, much
to his discomfort.

Why, Ill have a whole row of knobs around my coco before were
through with this trip, he complained after he had again arisen too
suddenly, and, consequently, banged the top of his head against the low
ceiling of the saloon.

I notice that already youre beginning to have a lot of trouble
pulling your cap on, Jack told him; and if you take my advice youll
think twice before you jump up so hastily. Its going to be a good
thing to tone you down, Ballyhoo. Beware of getting a swelled head.

They spent the evening as best the conditions allowed. Space was at
such a high premium down inside the little submarine craft that there
could be no moving around except in exceptional cases. On this account
they had to sit close together and amuse themselves by exchanging views
on various subjects, writing up their logs, and, of course, thinking of
those left at home.

Then came the time for sleep. Ballyhoo had quite exhausted himself
through his fierce exertions in the water, coupled with the mental
anguish he must certainly have endured. Consequently, he was dozing
long before either of the others thought to retire.

At the time Oscar crawled into his tight-fitting bunk it was four
bells, or ten oclock. He lay there for some time planning, and also
allowing his mind to travel back to former scenes, most of them
pleasant in their nature.

The engines were working steadily, and he could hear the singular
swish of the water just beyond the steel shell of the boat alongside
his head. How strange it was to realize that he meant to calmly seek
forgetfulness in slumber while they were many fathoms under the sea,
and traveling along at an eight-knot speed; just as though that had
always been the customary method of procedure, instead of a very recent
innovation and novelty.

Then finally he lost himself, and during the balance of the night
really awoke only three times.

It was on one of these occasions that Oscar knew from a change in the
sounds coming to his ears that they were ascending to the surface
again. He could hear the throb of the electric motors pumping the water
ballast from the reservoirs, which could be emptied in a marvelously
short time should necessity compel such haste.

He lay there listening until assured that once again they were afloat
on the bosom of the deep, and continuing their voyage. Somehow the full
significance of this gave him a sense of relief; it was certainly more
natural that they should be cruising on rather than under the water.
And soon fresh air would be circulating through the interior of the
boat, when the ventilation shafts were opened.

Then came morning, and the boys upon awakening made all haste possible
to get on deck, where they found Captain Shooks, partly dressed, with a
glorious red flannel nightcap still covering his bald head, as he took
a look around through his glasses.

The boys, too, made use of their opportunity, and scoured the horizon
diligently. So far as they could see there was no sign of the
suspicious black steam yacht; and it seemed as if they had successfully
eluded Badger and his crew.

Over on the port side lay one of those small keys found in many parts
of the great Caribbean Sea, with the stately palms hanging over the
green water, and the mangroves making another part of the shore look as
though it might prove a hard task to break through the thick barrier.

A native was seated in his canoe fishing, and now surveying the
singular looking, squatty craft with evident amazement. Even as they
looked he started frantically for the shore, as though his fears had
finally gotten the best of him. If the mere sight of a submarine gave
him such a fright the boys wondered what his sensations would have been
had he chanced to see the _Argonaut_ suddenly emerge from _beneath_ the
water like a monster fish, her rounded steel sides glistening in the
sunlight.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author achieves this by describing the submarine and the boys' activities.