What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
And so you have been sitting here watching for the unknown, when I
supposed you were studying costumes, or mentally rhapsodizing upon the
architectural beauties of the stone walls opposite. I am afraid, Nellie,
you are getting lonely. The Misses Eldridge have not called lately, or
that dear, delightful Mrs. Lee, about whom you were raving a month ago,
has gone away. I must look into this. When my wife is forced to seek
amusement and objects of interest in the faces of the passers-by upon
the streets

Oh, how fortunate! There she comes now! You shall see for yourself,
interrupted Mrs. Wylie, eagerly leaning forward and scanning the street
before her. She will be opposite here before long.

Mr. Wylie arose languidly, and slightly shaking his body to adjust his
clothing, moved gracefully across the room to his wifes side, where,
glancing over her shoulder, he sought the described woman. Among the
throng of hurrying pedestrians crossing the street a few rods away they
saw a lady, dressed in plain and unassuming black, slowly accommodating
her footsteps to the pace of the little toddler at her side, who trudged
along with the half-tottering, uncertain gait of infants of her age. So
slowly was she obliged to walk that the spectators at the window had
ample opportunity for close inspection.

The woman was of medium height, slender and pliant, with a fine poise of
the head and grace of sloping shoulders. Her face was pale, too pale for
perfect health, Elinor Wylie thought, and her features were clear-cut
and expressive. But the beauty of her face was in her eyes. As she came
opposite the hotel she seemed accidentally to glance upward.
Involuntarily Mr. and Mrs. Wylie drew back from the window, then looked
at each other and laughed.

Is she not lovely? questioned Mrs. Wylie triumphantly.

She has rather fine features, returned the gentleman, absently
twirling the curtain about his fingers. I fancy I have seen her before
somewhere, but I cannot now remember where. He wrinkled his brow
thoughtfully. I do not associate that face in my memory, however, with
black robes or the character of sewing woman in Forest City.

I knew you would be interested if you could but see her; and now how
can I learn more of her? I might seek her in a business way to get her
to sew for me or something of that kind, said the little woman, looking
inquiringly at her husband.

He laughed, a soft-modulated laugh, that well harmonized with his
languid movements and studied grace.

I am afraid you are premature in arriving at conclusions. You are not
yet sure that she is a sewing woman. I think I begin to understand your
mission on earth. You should be at the head of an organized benevolent
society. You are such an adept at fishing out cases upon which to waste
your sympathy.

Please do not laugh, Horace. It is very seldom I become interested in
anything of the kind and you should encourage me, she said.

And truly it was a rare thing for careless, thoughtless Elinor Wylie to
take interest in anything outside the fashionable circle which she
denominated our set. Her life had been too carefully ordered for her
to have much appreciation of the wretchedness beyond her gates.

And so you think I should allow you the luxury of an entirely new
sensation, said Mr. Wylie, with his habitual drawl. All right. Be as
benevolent as you choose, only be careful, he continued, rising and
beginning to draw on his gloves.

Mrs. Wylie looked at him inquiringly.

I am going to keep an appointment with Colonel Fenton. By the way,
Nellie, did I tell you, Doctor Lyman, the noted seer and spiritist, is
coming next week to give a series of lectures in Garretts Hall? I think
well have to attend, will we not?

Dr. Lyman? Oh, yes; Mrs. Wallace was telling me about him. Do you care
to hear _him_? asked Mrs. Wylie doubtfully.

Most assuredly, and so must you. People say he is remarkably
interesting; and besides, it will never do to lose so good an
opportunity to learn of the invisible world toward which we are fast
hastening; eh, Nelly?

But, Horace Little Mrs. Wylie hesitated and raised her blue eyes to
his questioningly.

Well, my dear, I am the personification of devout attention; what will
you have?

I wonderdo you really believe he knows any more about the other world
than any one else?


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Mr. and Mrs. Wylie and to hint at the conflict that will drive the plot forward. Mr. Wylie is established as a carefree, thoughtless man who is more interested in fashion and society than in anything else. Mrs. Wylie is established as a kind-hearted woman who is more interested in helping others than in her own social life. The conflict between them is hinted at when Mrs. Wylie expresses interest in the sewing woman and Mr. Wylie makes fun of her.