Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
In all the thoughts which flashed through his brain as he neared the
embassy there was none of the right or the wrong of the matter. No
maudlin sympathy for a fallen felon had ever quite reached his heart. He
was steeled against an ordinary assault from that direction. The five
years at Dartmoor had taught him caution on a desperate enterprise.
Possessed with superior education and the keen wits of a modern stock
broker or man about town, he regarded crime as the natural outlet for
his energy. It had not paid, but this had been on account of the
trifles. There was the thumb-print in London which had brought the
braying bloodhounds of the Yard down upon him. There was a dropped hotel
key in Chicago. There was a legion of mistakes.

He went on cautiously and set his mind on the problem ahead of him. He
was muffled to the eyes. The tools were safe about his clothes. The
American automatic was in his right-hand coat pocket. Also, he had not
neglected the rubber gloves which were to protect his fingers. The
matter looked promising. Already the great clock in the Htel de Ville
had struck the maximum. It was after twelve!

A light mist swirled through the streets with a promise of more. He
watched it wrap the staid, snug-nested houses in gossamer folds. A thin
troop of stragglers wound homewardGerman merchants out at elbows since
the Great Embargo, roisterers and women in yellow skirts who had
followed the armies until they walked like grenadiers, burgers with
pot-bellies and torches, who took the middle of the streets from force
of habit during the desperate days of the war.

Fay disappeared down through the gloom of a well-remembered lane, waited
a moment, then tiptoed his way over stones till he reached a narrow
alley which cut between the embassy and a cloth merchants somber
exterior. The high-barred windows on both sides of him were dark and
staring.

Glancing back for a final test, Fay reached upward and waited with his
arms extended to their limit. He narrowed his eyes as objects stood out
in the gloom of the passage.

A skulking form passed the entrance to the alley. This form had
hesitated for the fractional part of a minute. Then it had disappeared,
going in the direction of the Htel de Ville.

A low oath dropped from Fays lips. The skulker might have been a guard
to the embassy. Again, it might have been a drunken roisterer. Whoever
it was, there was danger of detection.

Fay clinched his teeth with much of the old nerve surging through him,
grasped the top of the wall with his fingers and was up and over like a
quick alley cat.

Gripped with the game, he worked swiftly. The garden wherein he stood
was filled with well-trimmed bushes and the scent of spring blossoms. He
crossed a soft bed by stepping on stones. He stooped at a low window and
tested his weight against the sash. Rising then, and listening, he drew
on a pair of rubber gloves and curled his fingers.

The window might be connected with an alarm. He decided to take no
chances. The panes of glass were large enough for a man to squeeze
through. He chose one at the bottom and rapidly cut through the putty
with the point of a knife. It flaked off and fell at his feet. The glass
came out with a prying attempt at the upper edge. A breath of moist air
greeted him. He had broken through to the basement of the embassy.

Canting his head, he listened. Hearing nothing, he thrust an arm through
the opening he had made and worked his body after the arm. His
rubber-covered fingers touched a rug on the floor. He half turned,
squirmed without sound and sat down with his face toward the window.

He kept this in view as a possible get-away as he moved over the floor
without rising to his feet. A faint yellowish light marked the outlines
of the removed pane. All else within the basement room was black.

The ticking of a clock sounded at his right. He stared in this direction
and waited with every sense alert. It was like receiving a warning of
the presence of life.

He moved on with both hands outstretched. He reached the edge of the
rug. His fingers coiled over the fringe. Beyond this was polished wood
which felt smooth to the rubber gloves.

Then, suddenly, he became aware of the muffled breathing of one in
torture. Groans sounded in low agony.

Fay had no light save wax matches. He sensed the general direction of
the sounds and moved slowly in their direction. Every nerve of him was
alert. The heavy drag of the automatic was reassuring. It could be used
at an instants notice.

The gasps and groans were nearer now. He reached out and touched a mans
form. About this form were many turns of heavy cord. Across the mans
mouth was a stick held in place behind the ears by a sash.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of danger. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is ominous.