Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XXXI
CAUGHT IN A BLIZZARD


Tibby had foolishly dallied in her home-coming. Even after mounting her
horse she sat in the saddle and indulged in the prolonged exchanges of
good-bys so common to young girls, until the blackening sky and
threatening flakes of snow admonished her, forcibly, to return in haste.

Tempest, glad to have permission to go at last, sped over the ground
with wonderful strides, covering the first half of the journey in a
short space of time; but as the wind arose and the soft flakes gave way
to hard, rice-like, cutting kernels of snow that beat in his face, he
became staggered in his pace, and finally, as the storm in all its fury
bore down upon them, both horse and rider lost all knowledge of distance
and location, their only effort being to keep the road. Tibby, blinded
by the storm, and forced to ride with her head bent forward and down,
felt her faithful beast stop and whirl half around as a furious blast,
chill as the arctic snows, struck them. The icy flakes cut into her
flesh like splinters of steel as she lifted her face to look about her.
She could see nothing except the whirling deluge of white enveloping
her. She was lost, lost.

O Tempest, good Tempest! she wailed, can you see the path no longer?
Will not your instincts guide you home? Try again, Tempest! Alas, I know
not which way to turn you! But go, Tempest, go! We shall freeze if we
stay here. Go!

But the horse, buffeted by the driving storm in his face, would move
forward only a few paces, then turn his head and stop, bewildered.

O my God, what shall I do? she moaned.

The cold was creeping up her limbs and benumbing her. She felt that she
must die there, and so near home. She thought she must have traversed
nearly the distance, if they had kept the road. Ah, if they had kept the
road. She was in doubt as to that. The horse, cowering and baffled, had
turned around. She turned him back, facing the storm, and with hand and
voice she urged him forward. For several moments he plunged into the
opaque snow-world before them, then again blinded, baffled, and
storm-beaten, the faithful animal stopped, and bowed his head to the
fury of the elements.

Tibby lost courage, and laying her face on the poor beasts neck, sobbed
in despair. Oh! why had she been so wilful and neglectful of Donalds
warning? He had been anxious about her, and tried to save her, but she
had in her silly pride and egotism ignored him and his counsel, and now
she must die. How cold she was. Her breath came in short, hard pants.
The wind seemed to take it from her and carry it away. It seemed to her
that the elements sported with life, and the wind, with demoniac shrieks
of frenzy and laughter, pounded and pommeled and bruised her as she lay
upon the neck of the trembling, cowering beast which had borne her so
gallantly that morning.

O Tempest, Tempest, we are surely lost, lost! she wailed. God has let
loose all his furies upon us; no where on the bleak, cold, storm-driven
and storm-beaten prairie is there shelter for us. If a stable were but a
rod away we could not find it. We must die, must die, good horse!
Dieiiiie! Her chattering teeth would scarcely permit the words to
pass.

Tibby tried to pray, but the words would not form themselves. She could
only think of her childs prayer of Now I lay me down to sleep, and
she remembered reading once of a man who, upon the neck of a maddened
bull, thus prayed, and in a hysterical revulsion of emotion she
laughed,laughed and shrieked with the shrieking wind, in hysterical
gasps,laughed even in the face of death. Then, chill and trembling, she
felt as if the hand of the grim reaper was upon her, and she lay
motionless upon the neck of the horse, half unconscious.

Suddenly she was startled by a soundthe crack of a rifle not far
distant. The horse started and lifted its head, then whirled around
again in the direction of the sound. She felt the quiver of the animal
beneath her, and with an effort roused herself. There was hope in that
sound. Some one was near.

Go, Tempest, go! she cried. There is some one near! Some one is
looking for us!

The horse, as if understanding the meaning of the rifle-shot, was
already plunging forward, and Tibby clung sobbing, in convulsive
reaction, to his neck.

She tried to shout, but the howling wind drowned even her powerful and
far-reaching voice. It was blowing fearfully now. Each gust nearly tore
her from the saddle by its violence, benumbed as she was by the cold.
Again the friendly rifle-crack sounded its peal of deliverance in her
ears. And farther away she heard, more faintly, a second sound, like an
echo, respond.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Tibby is caught in a blizzard while on her way home from a visit. She and her horse, Tempest, become disoriented and lost in the storm. Tibby grows increasingly cold and despairs of ever being found. She prays and then falls into a half-conscious state.
Suddenly, she is awakened by the sound of a rifle shot. The horse starts and then begins moving in the direction of the sound. Tibby realizes that someone is nearby and trying to find them. She tries to shout but the wind drowns out her voice.
The horse continues moving towards the sound of the rifle shots and Tibby clings to its neck, sobbing in relief. Eventually, they are found by the person who was shooting and Tibby is saved.