Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Another self-improvement commercial. This time a man with a ballet in
the background.

"Are you in tune with your crowd? If you do not feel that your tastes
are in perfect accord with the tastes of your group, send for the
Reacto Tester. This mechanical device, when attached to the brain,
records accurate tastes. It insures comforting conformity, and protects
you against the anxieties of conspicuousness. Remember, you can't stray
from the norm with a Reacto."

Kelsey and his love had moved apart now. They were staring at the
Tevee. Everything the Tevee had to say seemed to involve getting along
with people, being loved, being liked, being accepted, not being
rejected, not offending, how to love efficiently, how to be loved
gracefully--

But there they are, the two of them, Alice thought. What are they
waiting for?

Waiting to look just right, to smile just right. It was a matter of
appearance. No one knew that better than Alice did who looked all
wrong and could never look any different, never look human, never look
full of love.

You smiled when you loved. You smiled and your flesh turned warm. If
you had flesh. If your warmth was not a dial to be turned up or down.
If on the outside you were human so that everyone could know.

"Oh, Alice," Kelsey called out.

Alice came in from the kitchen. "Yes, Master Kelsey."

Gloria stared on and on into the Tevee while its color flickered over
her half sleeping face.

"Tomorrow's your rest day, Alice."

"Yes, Master Kelsey."

"Well, you can go stand in your closet now. That will give you all
night and all day tomorrow to rest. Is everything taken care of around
the place for Tuesday?"

"Yes, Master Kelsey."

Kelsey smiled at Alice. He whispered low, "She likes me a little more,
don't you think so, Alice?"

"Yes."

He smiled more widely. "Well, Alice, good night. Relax your thermostat."

Kelsey laughed as she bowed slightly and walked out onto the porch and
opened the door of her closet and got inside and stood there, the four
walls almost touching her when the door closed and she stood alone in
the loneliness of her darkness and silence.

For a long time it had been a rich darkness filled with an ever growing
understanding of herself in a world alone, in a darkness all her own,
where there could never be others of her kind, and lonely darkness was
her only friend.

But it was different now. Love made the loneliness unbearable. Love
turned lonely darkness to stabbing pain. Now it seemed like death.
No, death was nothing. This was worse than death. This was not being,
unbeing. A being that was not a being, but something never able to
break from its shell, staying shut up forever in its mechanical
confines.

They did not give me life, she thought. They sat me down before
the world's stage to watch without being able to understand. Now I
understand, but I cannot live.

She clenched her hands and trembled in the dark, and felt the
quickening beat of the things that made her run.

In the dark, the suffocating dark now that she knew what it could mean
to really be alive and not one of the walking dead. In the dark, alone,
dreaming of Kelsey, dreaming of human heart touching human heart, of
the lips of his kiss, of his arms around her neck; longing for the face
of Kelsey next to her own in darkness lit by love, to take his mouth,
to cover his body with kisses, to clasp his neck in her hands--

And there alone where she had dreamed a thousand dreams, she knew she
could no longer merely dream. Dreams were not enough.

_Not enough! Not enough!_

A silent scream shrieked inside the narrow closet and cut the dark to
tatters, and she ran out, out into the back yard of Kelsey's house and
stood under the open sky.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Alice is a servant in Kelsey's house. Kelsey is watching a self-improvement commercial on TV. The commercial is for a device called the Reacto Tester, which is supposed to help people conform to the tastes of their social group. Kelsey and Alice are both watching the commercial, and Kelsey comments that he thinks Alice likes him a little more than she used to.
Alice goes to her closet to rest, and she begins to think about how different her life is now that she is in love with Kelsey. She remembers how lonely she used to be, but now the loneliness is unbearable because she knows what it feels like to be in love. She thinks about how Kelsey's love makes her feel more alive than she ever has before.
Suddenly, Alice has an epiphany: she realizes that she can no longer just dream about being with Kelsey, she has to take action. She runs out into the backyard and looks up at the open sky, feeling alive and free for the first time.