Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
He did not see the giant raise his arms skyward, grimace hideously, and
dance wildly up and down beneath the pale stars. Faster and faster,
his body bending sharply as convulsive tremors shook him. Shrieking,
whirling, bending and straightening, the hatchet in his clasp gleaming
redly in the steady light as he danced.

Sheldon's head was aching when he sat up. Instinctively he pressed his
hand to his temple and withdrew it with a groan of pain.

Curiously, consciousness hadn't returned slowly, leaving him confused.
It had returned swiftly. He knew that there was a deep gash in his
forehead and that he was fortunate to be alive.

Painstakingly he explored the gash again. It was still bleeding a
little, but he was quite sure that the ax hadn't penetrated his skull.
His vision was much too clear, his faculties too abnormally alert.

He could make out every detail of the small, metal-walled room into
which he'd been carried by his brutish assailant.

Carried or dragged. He had no way of knowing. He only knew that he was
now sitting up with his back to a firm metal wall, staring straight
across the room at a low metal bench.

On the bench sat a dozen rosy-cheeked, almost doll-like little figures
clothed in fantastically bright garments that seemed to be made of
tissue paper.

The little figures had the pudgy hands and dimpled legs of very young
infants, and they were staring at him out of wide dark eyes that
stubbornly refused to blink.

It all seemed like a dream. But Sheldon knew that it wasn't. He even
knew that the little figures were not infants. They were more like
Lilliputians, except that Lilliputians could blink.

Was that because they lacked power to move, he wondered wildly. If only
they would walk, shift their positions a little or cease to regard him
with that fixed, unwavering stare.

Suddenly the door opened, and a girl came into the room. A
full-bosomed, strikingly pretty girl, wearing a plain white smock which
descended from her shoulders to just above her knees.

A girl with raven-black hair and lustrous dark eyes, a perfectly
normal girl carrying a cracked earthenware bowl.

Seemingly the bowl contained milk, for the instant the girl saw
Sheldon her pupils dilated, and it fell from her hands, splintering
into fragments and spilling a thin white fluid which snaked in all
directions over the floor.

The next instant she was on her knees before him, staring at him out of
wide eyes, running her hands over his face and almost fearfully patting
his hair. For a moment she continued to explore the contours of his
face, as though amazed that his features were not coarse and thick like
the features of the brute who had struck him down.

Then astonishment and a fierce, almost maternal solicitude filled her
eyes.

"You're hurt!" she murmured. "Here! Let me bind up your head."

Sheldon had started to get up. But before he could regain his feet,
she'd ripped a strip of cloth from her smock, and was winding it about
his head. Her breath fell warm against his face. He sank back against
the wall, and let her have her way. Deftly she knotted the bandage, and
adjusted it so that it rested comfortably upon his head.

"A man like myself!" she murmured, incredulously.

Sheldon stared at her, a tightness in his throat.

Yes, there--there was a resemblance. Faint, but unmistakable. Not
to himself, but to Gale. She had Gale's almost incredible width of
forehead--a feature which, oddly enough, did not detract from her
loveliness. And when she smiled something about her mouth reminded him
of Gale.

She was smiling now, nodding and smiling at him, her eyes strangely
moist.

"I've seen pictures of men like you in the micro-audiovisual films,"
she said.

Then as she raised her head Sheldon saw that she had Gale's eyes.

"Where's John Gale?" Sheldon said, quickly. As he spoke he leaned
forward, and gripped the girl's wrist. "Where is he?"


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very descriptive. The author uses a lot of detail to describe the setting, the characters, and the events that take place.