Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
"I'm going to throw you my space rope," snapped McCauley. "You will
catch it and obey my orders."

"Yes, sir."

"Catch!" snapped McCauley.

He threw the rope. Because they were rotating, the first cast was wild.
Sammy Breen wasn't where he threw the rope when it got to him. It had
McCauley's own speed of rotation, so it did not go where he aimed. It
took half a dozen attempts to get the rope to where the younger man
could catch the squirming line in the stiff gauntlet of his space suit.

"Now, fasten your reamer to the rope," commanded McCauley. "Tie on your
other tools. Give me every bit of equipment you've got except your air
tanks."

"Y-yes, sir," said Sammy's voice in the helmet phones.

Spinning as they were, the universe of stars and sun and the vast,
unfamiliar, brilliantly lighted object which was Earth seemed to be
engaged in a monstrous saraband. Now Sammy was a glaringly bright
object with full, blazing sunshine hitting his space suit. Again he
was lighted from the side with the brightness of Earth behind him,
racing past his body with all its features blurred. Yet again the stars
seemed not points of light but streaks, and there were moments when the
sun itself was a flashing band of intolerable brightness. But somehow
this vast and silent motion of the cosmos seemed unreal. It was like a
hallucination. It was like a nightmare in which absolutely nothing was
true; in which there was no actual sun or Earth or stars, because in
reality those things did not swing in lunatic sweeps around anybody,
anywhere.

While the younger man blindly obeyed McCauley, they continued to drift
away toward infinity. Curiously enough, the centrifugal force caused by
their spinning gave McCauley the only sensation of weight that he'd had
since his arrival at the orbit of the Platform.

Randy's voice came in McCauley's headphones.

"Ed! My God!"

His tone was anguished and hopeless.

"Randy," said McCauley in clipped tones. "You can be useful. When we're
in line with you, say 'tip.' Say it again. Keep it up."

Almost instantly Randy said, "Tip." Then, "Tip." Then, "Tip" again.
Sammy Breen said hoarsely:

"All my equipment, sir, is fastened to your space rope. Everything but
my air tanks."

"Right. Now let go of it," commanded McCauley. "Randy, how fast are we
drifting away?"

Randy's voice came hoarse and harsh.

"I don't know. Slowly, but you're a good hundred and fifty feet off. A
trifle more."

McCauley calculated aloud, for his own comfort as well as the
information of Randy and Sammy Breen.

"We've been drifting maybe half a minute. Those 'tips' of yours were
about one second apart. We're spinning once in two seconds at the ends
of a thirty-foot rope. Each of us has an angular velocity of something
over forty feet per second. Forty-five or better. Our joint speed away
from the Platform--a hundred and fifty feet in thirty seconds....
Somewhere around five feet per second. Not much more, anyhow! We're
practically crawling away, but we're spinning like blazes."

Randy said, dry-throated:

"Even if we had rope, Ed, I couldn't get it to you."

"I know," said McCauley curtly. "Lieutenant?"

"Yes, sir," said Sammy Breen's voice, quite steady now. "I've thought
of something, sir. If we act fast and I cut the rope at just the right
instant, sir...."

"Keep quiet!" snapped McCauley. "That's an order! Right now I want you
to push that equipment at the end of my rope away from you as hard
as you can, in the direction we're spinning. The way we're spinning!
You've got too much angular velocity. Understand?"

"Yes, sir," said Sammy. "I'm glad, sir...."

"Keep quiet!" snapped McCauley again. "Push!"


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-McCauley: the commander, snaps orders
-Sammy Breen: the younger man, blindly obeys orders
-Randy: McCauley's friend, voice is anguished and hopeless