Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
IV


The ride to Hamburg was short and pleasant. There the whole party
disembarked; Elsa and the Baroness to remain, and Ferreira and Topham
to take another train for Berlin.

In the waiting-room Topham made his farewells. Ferreira had gone to see
after the baggage and the Baroness had fallen a little behind, so that
the two were practically alone. Briefly, almost coldly, for fear his
passion might break away in spite of himself, Topham pressed the girls
hand and bade her adieu.

Good-by, Senorita, he said, slowly. I have to thank you for a very
delightful voyage. Is there no chance at all that I may see you in
Berlin. I shall be there till day after tomorrow.

The girl shook her head. If she were piqued by Tophams self-restraint
she did not show it. I must stay in Hamburg for the present, she
answered, deliberately. I shall not go to Berlin till much later. So
this is really good-by, senor.

Good-by. Topham clasped her extended hand; then turned away, afraid
to trust himself further.

But the girl called him back. Senor! she exclaimed softly. Senor!

Yes!

Listen! Be careful. Be very careful. Things--happen--to strangers
sometimes. Be very careful, senor, till you are safe in Berlin.

Topham stared. I dont understand, he said.

There is nothing to understand--except to be--careful. This country
is not always altogether safe for strangers. Be careful--for my sake,
senor.

The girls voice broke and Topham started forward, flinging resolutions
to the wind.

Elsa, he cried. I--

But the voice of Ferreira broke in. Cabs waiting, Elsa, he called.
Come along! Hurry! Or youll make Senor Topham and me miss our train.

Recalled to himself by the interruption, Topham raised the girls hand
to his lips, then dropped it and saw her led away.

Soon Ferreira was back. Quick, Senor Topham! he called. The trains
waiting.

Many people apparently were going to Berlin, but few of them appeared
to hold first-class tickets, and the two young men speedily found an
empty carriage, in which they ensconced themselves.

Ferreira promptly leaned out of the window. Here! guard, he said,
holding out his hand. I dont want to be bothered with other people!
You understand! A piece of silver changed hands and the Brazilian
settled back.

Then he turned and nodded to Topham.

Well try to keep this compartment to ourselves, senor, he said. I
detest travelling shut in with three or four others. I suppose you
agree with me.

Topham answered that he did.

An instant later the guards began to run along the platform slamming
the doors. Just before they reached the carriage that sheltered Topham,
two Germans came running up. One of them grabbed the handle of the door
and jerked it open, and both precipitated themselves into the carriage,
despite the Brazilians strenuous protests.

We have as good right here as you, nicht wahr? asserted the foremost,
seating himself without any ceremony. This carriage is not reserved?
What? It has no placard out? No!

Ferreira fumed, pouring out so swift a torrent of guttural German that
Topham, good German scholar as he was, could not understand one word in
five. The intruders, however, clearly understood very well. Scornfully
indifferent at first, they soon roused to the assault and apparently
gave back as good as he sent.

In the middle of the dispute the train started, but neither Ferreira
nor his adversary seemed to note that the case was closed. Hotter and
hotter waxed the wordy war. Soon the two men were glaring at each
other, shaking their fists and seeming on the point of flying at each
others throats.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Two men intrude on Ferreira and Topham's train compartment, despite the Brazilians strenuous protests. Ferreira fumed, pouring out so swift a torrent of guttural German that Topham, good German scholar as he was, could not understand one word in five. The intruders, however, clearly understood very well. Scornfully indifferent at first, they soon roused to the assault and apparently gave back as good as he sent.