What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Without waiting to knock, as Mother had taught me always to do, I burst
into the living room to discover Mother in the clutches of Peter
Johansen. She was trying to fight him off; but he was forcing her slowly
toward her bedroom, for he was a large and powerful man. He heard me
just as I leaped for him and turning, grappled with me. He tried to hold
me off with one hand then while he drew his knife; but I struck him in
the face with one fist and knocked him from me, way across the room. He
was up again in an instant, bleeding from nose and mouth, and back at me
with his knife in his hand, slashing furiously. Again I struck him and
knocked him down and when he arose and came again I seized his
knife-hand and tore the weapon from him. He had no slightest chance
against me, and he saw it soon, for he commenced to back away and beg
for mercy.

Kill him, Julian, said Mother; kill the murderer of your father.

I did not need her appeal to influence me, for the moment that I had
seen Peter there I knew my long awaited time had come to kill him. He
commenced to cry thengreat tears ran down his cheeks and he bolted for
the door and tried to escape. It was my pleasure to play with him as a
cat plays with a mouse.

I kept him from the door, seizing him and hurling him bodily across the
room, and then I let him reach the window, through which he tried to
crawland I permitted him to get so far that he thought he was about to
escape and then I seized him again and dragged him back to the floor and
lifting him to his feet I made him fight.

I struck him lightly in the face many times and then I laid him on his
back across the table and kneeling on his chest I spoke to him, softly.

You had my friend, old Samuels, murdered and my father, too, and now
you come to befoul my mother. What did you expect, swine, but this? Have
you no intelligence? You must have known that I would kill youspeak!

They said that they would get you today, he whimpered. They lied to
me. They went back on me. They told me that you would be in the pen at
the barracks before noon. Damn them, they lied to me!

So! that was how it was, eh? And the lucky circumstance of the strayed
goat had saved me to avenge my father and succor my mother; but they
would come yet. I must hurry or they might come before I was through,
and so I took his head between my hands and bent his neck far back over
the edge of the table until I heard his spine partand that was the end
of the vilest traitor who ever livedone who professed friendship
openly and secretly conspired to ruin us. In broad daylight I carried
his body to the river and threw it in. I was past caring what they knew.
They were coming for me and they would have their way with me whether
they had any pretext or not; but they would have to pay a price for me,
that I determined, and I got my knife and strapped it in its scabbard
about my waist beneath my shirt; but they did not comethey had lied to
Peter just as they lie to everyone.

The next day was market day and tax day, so I went to market with the
necessary goats and produce to make my trades and pay my taxes. As Soor
passed around the market place making his collections, or rather his
levies, for we had to deliver the stuff to his place ourselves, I saw
from the excited conversation of those in his wake that he was spreading
alarm and consternation among the people of the commune.

I wondered what it might all be about, nor had I long to wait to
discover, for he soon reached me. He could neither read nor write; but
he had a form furnished by the government upon which were numbers that
the agents were taught how to read and which stood for various classes
of produce, livestock and manufactures. In columns beneath these numbers
he made marks during the month for the amounts of my trades in each
itemit was all crude, of course, and inaccurate; but as they always
overcharged us and then added something to make up for any errors they
might have made to our credit, the government was satisfied, even if we
were not.

Being able to read and write, as well as to figure, I always knew to a
dot just what was due from me in tax and I always had an argument with
Soor, from which Government emerged victorious every time.

This month I should have owed him one goat, but he demanded three.

How is that? I asked.

Under the old rate you owed me the equivalent of a goat and a half; but
since the tax had been doubled under the new law you owe me three
goats. Then it was I knew the cause of the excitement in other parts of
the market place.

How do you expect us to live if you take everything from us? I asked.

The government does not care whether you live or not, he replied, as
long as you pay taxes while you do live.

I will pay the three goats, I said, because I have to; but next
market day I will bring you a present of the hardest cheese I can find.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the conflict between Julian and the government. Julian is angry about the new taxes and the way the government is treating the people. He is also determined to get revenge on the man who killed his father.