Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
VIII

_Solar Struggle_


Oxygenators started throbbing, doors clanged, as the others tumbled
aboard. Harb Land, smeared with dirt and oil, his shock of hair wild,
climbed into the pilot seat and expertly touched controls.

"Generators coming on!" sang Loesser's breathless voice from the
interphone, as the low, deep hum began.

"Stasis on," said Harb rapidly, his fingers busy. The blue cushion of
force was around them as Carlin slumped drunkenly into a seat. "Zero,
two and five acceleration schedule. Here we go!"

And the "Phoenix" swept up with a rush from the spaceport, the
propulsion-waves streaming from its drive-plates hurling it out and
upward into the star-sown sky, the spaceport lamps and the southward
blinking lights of New York falling swiftly away.

"Authorization!" yelped a startled voice from the universal communic on
the panel. "Give authorization for take-off!"

"Authorization already given," Harb Land rapped back, then cut the
communic. He laughed. "That'll puzzle them a while."

Crazy, reckless, suicidal, to Carlin seemed the way that Harb was
taking them out from Earth. The atmosphere of the planet had no sooner
started a shrill, rising scream around them than it fell and faded as
they came out of the envelope of air.

Luna burst up out of the eastern heavens like a great globe of dull
gold against the stars. And then Carlin's eyes were smitten by the
flare and glare of the brilliant disk of Sol, of the Sun.

And then the "Phoenix" lined out and was plunging headlong through the
void at a speed that Carlin knew was flatly illegal to use inside any
System, a rush toward that distant Sun flare.

"Cut down, cut down!" cried Jonny to his brother. "Any more speed and
you'll not be able to decelerate in time to orbit around the Sun."

Harb Land turned a wild, dirty face aflame with emotion. "By heaven,
we're on our way at last! We'll show them now that Earthmen can still
blaze a space-trail nobody else has dared!"

And from back amidships came a hoarse voice jubilantly singing the old
Earth space-song:

Blast away toward the stars--

Jonny Land's voice lashed them, his thin face dripping and determined.

"You're all of you blowing your tops with excitement. This hasn't even
started yet. Look at what we're heading for!"

Carlin heard the others fall silent and himself felt a chill of awe as
he looked ahead at the giant fire orb toward which the "Phoenix" was
plunging.

"We'll be orbiting before we have the dredge set up, unless we hurry,"
Jonny prodded. "Come on, help me with it."

The big magnetic dredge had to be bolted into place, the coils and
pipes had to be hooked to their connections inside the ship, the cables
to the generators, the cooling coils to the compressor, the outlets of
the Markheim filters to the bunkers astern.

Thrumming, creaking, shivering in every strut to the blind thrust of
power that was hurling it on, the "Phoenix" rocked and shook about them
as Carlin labored with Jonny and two of the other men to make those
last connections. The cramped space in the hold around the dredge was
hot, stifling, for the oxygenators couldn't keep the air there pure.

"All ready!" Jonny called finally, after eternal-seeming hours of toil.
"And none too soon. We're getting there fast. Harb has put out most of
the heat-screens."

Through the windows, the ship seemed enveloped by a halo of dim light,
the force-screens that repelled radiations of heat.

But when Carlin stumbled with Jonny into the pilot room, they were half
blinded even through the screens by the fierce, blazing glare from
ahead.

Half the sky ahead was Sun, a gigantic abyss of roaring flame that
crushed the mind by its magnitude. All directions of space seemed
canceled, and they were falling, falling, into an inferno of fire.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Harb Land: reckless, wild, dirty, excited
-Carlin: drunk, awe-struck
-Jonny Land: determined, thin, dripping
-other men: helping to set up the dredge