Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Well, our files had plenty on the Solver, since it was a hot news item.
They claimed it could answer anything. It was a machine that covered an
acre of floor and stood about thirty feet high--all full of wires and
relays and counters. Also there were tanks of stuff that the inventor
called the bio-chemical conceptors. These tanks were hooked up with a
million fine wires, from one tank to the next, and all tied in with
electronic tubes. It was a sort of super-brain.

The Solver was invented because the human brain is limited to a few
concepts at one time. Science needed a brain that could juggle a whole
bunch of ideas simultaneously. And since the Solver was fed only facts,
its multi-brain wasn't cluttered with useless junk.

It had taken months to build it--and a lot of dough. So the scientists
weren't anxious to have it snitched from them by any politician like
Sassoon.

I called up Professor Connor, the inventor, and told him who I was.

"I have no comments for the press!" he says tartly. In the visiplate,
his beard was thrust forward so pugnaciously that it was all out of
focus and I had to peer through the brush in order to see his face.

"Take it easy, Professor." I smiled suavely. "The Press is your best
friend. If you're getting a dirty deal we will tell the whole world
about it! Are you going to appeal the court decision?"

"Yes," he says after a pause. "I am!" He strokes his beard so that it
clears from the visiplate and I can see a fairly benign looking old
geezer. "I was only defeated on a technicality today. As inventor and
owner of the Solver, my rights are patent."

"How come Sassoon grabbed your gadget, Professor?"

"The Solver is not a gadget!" he snaps. "It's a delicate machine--and
dangerous! The man who controls it can solve any riddle, given time.
Therefore, it should remain under scientific control. It belongs
rightfully to the Science Department."

"Yeah--but how about Sassoon?"

The professor's snort rattled the receiver.

"Sassoon is already head of Geo-politics. The other departments of
government won't last long if Geo-politics controls the Solver. Sassoon
is an unscrupulous bandit!" And the professor snapped off his set.

Maybe he was right. In the news room it was no secret that Sassoon was
going to be the Big Shot or bust. In fact, I had a dilly of a headline
all cooked up for the day Sassoon seized the scepter.

The following morning, however, the news wasn't so funny. Professor
Connor was going to see his lawyer that day. Here's the teletype copy:

PROFESSOR CONNOR KILLED IN CRASH. CAR COLLIDES WITH CAB AT CORNER OF
5TH AND GRAND. CONNOR'S CORPSE CONSIGNED TO CREMATORY. ODDS 50 TO 1 ON
SASSOON. AP.

Old B. J. raised holy cain over that one!

"Connor's corpse consigned to crematory!" he yowled. "One more crack
like that and you, Pennyweight, are fired!"

"Pennyfeather," I correct B. J.

"Featherweight, Pennyweather, Periwinkle!" he foams. "What's the odds!
You Featherbrain!"

Before I can answer, he's gone, slamming the door and blowing papers
off my desk.

Well, a couple of days later Sassoon announces that the Solver will be
unveiled to the public with due ceremony, come Wednesday. The Science
Department is invited to attend at the Solver Building. Which is very
magnanimous, considering that the Science Department paid for the
building and the Solver too!

"Jellyfeather," says old B. J. "You go down and cover this unveiling."

That's how I came to witness the Joe Squeeb incident.

I had a seat in the hall right down in front--just behind the
disgruntled-looking scientists. Maybe they had a right to feel that
way, but they knew better than to ignore Sassoon's invitation. Sassoon
was very sensitive about such things as being snubbed. So they were all
there, sitting like a row of hungry blackbirds.

Up on the platform, the chairman opened the proceedings with a nice
little speech which safely said nothing, and then he handed over the
meeting to Sassoon.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is journalistic, with a touch of humor. The point of view is third person omniscient.