Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"Mohammed Beggi ben Smal, Private, 2nd Tirailleurs. He died for
France, September 23rd, 1914. Pray for him."


I have seldom seen anything more moving than that little cross pleading
for a Christian prayer for the humble Mussulman soldier.

Vignerte, looking straight in front of him, was waiting for the moment
when the growing light would reveal the lie of the land. But that hour
was not yet come. Only the dark line of the heights occupied by the
enemy could be distinguished on the horizon.


OVER there is Hurtebise and Craonne, he said, and beyond it Laon, Saint
Richaumont and Goise. Farther still is La Capelle and the forest of
Nouvion, where we charged the White Cuirassiers. How often do my
thoughts fly over them to the sandy plains of Hanover and Lautenburg
where I have left Aurora? What is she doing in her room among her rugs
and her jewels? What have they done to her, my God!

When we returned to the palace after the scene on the La Meilleraie
bridge she said not a word to me. We had our breakfast together, then
she began to arrange large purple iris and white nigella in vases.

About ten o'clock she summoned one of her waiting women.

"Is Mademoiselle Marthe there?" she asked. Receiving an affirmative
reply the said:

"Show her in."

Mlle. Marthe came every year about this time to show the Grand Duchess
the last word in novelties from Paris. A delicate suggestion of the
Boulevard de la Madeleine seemed to enter with this good-looking, dainty
girl.

"Have you had a pleasant journey, child?" asked Aurora.

"I arrived last evening, madame," replied the girl. "Please excuse me
for intruding on your Highness so soon, but I have to go back this
evening."

"What have you got for me this year?"

Mlle. Marthe opened her boxes and revealed dainty jewellery, tulle fans,
vanity bags in velvet and moir, diminutive stamp boxes, powder boxes,
patch-boxes--those Parisian fallals which make all others look cheap.

"Leave me these," said Aurora. "Tell Duvelleroy it will be all right. In
November I shall want a Watteau fan, or at any rate a Lancret. It must
be ready when I arrive in Paris."

"Your Highness shall have it," replied the girl confidently.

"Good. You had better take the five o'clock express this evening. You
will stay to lunch with me and tell me what the Rue de la Paix will be
doing this winter."

During the meal I admired the unaffected ease with which the little
Parisian girl replied to the Grand Duchess's questions. It made me proud
of my pretty fellow-countrywoman to see Aurora, who had so little love
for the women of Lautenburg, treat her as an equal. But how much greater
was my admiration for the self-possession of this princess, who, after
three days and nights such as would have broken a strong man, was able
to carry on light conversation about the thousand and one little trifles
of Paris fashions.

"You still recommend Cartier?"

"Yes, madame, they are still the best for hats."

"Laurence has left the Rue des Pyramids; she has a big establishment in
the Rue Auber. I shall probably give her a call."

"I should suggest Your Highness going there. Laurence specializes in the
export business. Most of her trade is with foreign houses."

It was a pleasure to hear all this small talk, a refreshing, idle
interlude in tragic events; it almost helped me to forget.

About three o'clock the Grand Duchess handed Marthe an envelope.

"This is for your journey, my dear. I don't want you to miss your train.
A car will take you back to your hotel, then on to the station. I am
quite satisfied. Don't forget my fan. Good-bye. I shall be calling on
you in November."

When the little ray of sunshine had vanished the Grand Duchess remained
a moment in thought, fingering the trifles that lay scattered about the
room. Then she said:


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very formal and polite. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of admiration and respect.