Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
X SPIED UPON


After all the diver was not prepared to give any positive report. He
had found it a difficult job to get aboard the old hulk, which he said
must have lain there many, many years, for it seemed to be of a model
that had been in vogue away back in the days when Spanish galleons
carried cargoes of gold and silver stolen from the Mexicans across to
Spain, many of the clumsy sailing craft being lost on the way.

The presence of part of a high afterdeck betrayed the fact that it
belonged to that type of vessel, he told them. At which the captain
shot Oscar a look of grim delight, for doubtless he anticipated great
things to come.

All of them were of the opinion that they had actually come upon the
wreck of the chart, and hopes ran high. The second diver was now ready
to take his turn below. Time was a factor in the game. They were in the
hurricane belt, and though the period of the year when these twisters
are supposed to come out of the Windward Islands had passed, still
occasionally one is belated.

There were other reasons, too, why they should not dally. One of these
went by the name of Badger, and as such might be set down as a constant
menace. All day long they must scan the horizon, looking for any sign
of an approaching boat. Should such be discovered, haste would be made
to dismantle the float, so that all signs of their recent labors might
be destroyed, after which the submarine could drop out of sight.

In one quarter only could they see what appeared to be another Key. It
lay about ten or twelve miles away, possibly further, since distances
are so deceptive over the water.

This time it was the design of Captain Shooks to sink the submarine,
so that the diver might have the benefit of the electric searchlight,
which would aid him in his work very much indeed.

Jack went down with the boat, desirous of adding to his interesting
collection of sub-aqueous pictures. It was worth something to actually
see the diver, clad in his suit, handling an axe in the water, just as
though he might be a woodchopper in the forest attacking a tree.

But it needed a very powerful man to wield that axe, such was the
resistance of the water. Blows that required every ounce of strength he
could put in them made but a faint impression.

The wreck, as could be easily seen, lay partly on its side. On this
account it was necessary to fashion some sort of rude ladder by means
of which the diver could climb up to one of the openings in the deck.

All these years the sea had preserved the vessel, so that it was in
almost as good condition as when it went down with its cargo and
crew. Fishes had swarmed out of the hulk, and great stone crabs, with
monstrous, threatening claws, backed off as the diver made his way
about. He never knew what strange and horrible sea monsters he might
disturb after entering the interior of the wreck, one end of which was
partly buried in the sand.

It was about the middle of the afternoon when for the fourth time the
submarine ascended to the surface, the captain wishing to get the
report of the man who was just then going up. He had managed to get
part way inside the hulk, and it was possible that he might be in a
position to tell something encouraging.

Oscar and Ballyhoo had remained above this time, and when Jack came out
on deck he was just in time to discover them rowing toward the island
in the small, collapsible boat.

Please wait for me, he called out. Id like to go along, and take my
box with me. I ought to get a view of things from a little distance, so
as to take in the whole outfit, with the sea for a background, if you
can call it that.

Accordingly, the other pair came back, and shipped Jack, together with
his inseparable companion, that wonderful box with its crank, necessary
machinery, and fine lens.

They leisurely pulled to the shore. A small, sandy beach offered an
inviting landing place, and the light boat soon ran up on the gentle
slope. Then some time was spent in watching Jack get busy, though after
he had once found his focus he soon secured all he wished in order to
complete his picture.

Do we go back now? asked Ballyhoo. It feels so jolly just to stretch
your legs on solid ground again after all the time weve been cooped up
in those narrow quarters that Id like to stay ashore a while, if its
all the same to you, Oscar.

I was going to suggest that we start out and explore the Key, the one
addressed went on to say, at which Ballyhoo grinned amiably, and nodded
his head.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward, with a third-person omniscient narrator. The tone is mostly neutral, although there is a hint of excitement in the air as the characters discuss the possibility of finding treasure. The point of view is mostly objective, although there are a few moments when the narrator gives us a glimpse into the characters' thoughts and feelings.