Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Madame dIonis and Bernard now ran forward; I found Caroline beautified
by happiness. Some moments afterwards we all met again at the table,
with the abb Lamyre, who had arrived that morning, and the good
Zphyrine, who had closed the eyes of the dowager dIonis several weeks
before, and who wore mourning like everyone else in the house. The
dAillanes not being related to the dIonis, except by marriage, could
dispense with a formality that would have seemed only an act of
hypocrisy on their part.

The supper was not lively. They were forced to abstain from gayety and
expansiveness before the servants, and Madame dIonis realized so well
the exigencies of her situation, that she restrained herself without
effort and kept her guests up to the same pitch. The hardest person to
silence was the abb Lamyre; he could not resist his habit of humming
two or three couplets, in the style of a philosophical _rsum_, during
the conversation.

Notwithstanding this sort of constraint, joy and love were in the air of
this household, where no one could reasonably regret M. dIonis, and
where the contracted ideas, and shallowness of the dowagers heart had
left a very small vacancy. We inhaled a perfume of hope and of delicate
tenderness which penetrated my very soul, and which I wondered did not
sadden meI, who was betrothed to eternal solitude.

It was true that since my intimacy with Bernard I had made rapid strides
towards recovery. His character was so enterprising that, in spite of
myself, he had snatched me from my mournful reflections; and in
possessing himself of my secret he had also released me from the fatal
influence which was drawing me to a separation from all other ties.

A secret without a confidant is a mortal illness, he had said, and he
had listened to all my vagaries, without appearing to perceive my
madness; sometimes he had seemed to share it, sometimes he had
skillfully suggested doubts that had won me over to his way of thinking.
I had come to think, a greater part of the time, that were it not for
the inexplicable fact of the ring, my imagination alone was responsible
for all my fantastic adventures.

I found in M. dAillane all the superiority of heart and mind that his
children had spoken of. He evinced a sympathy for me, to which I
responded with all my soul.

We separated as late as possible. As for myself, when twelve oclock
struck and Madame dIonis gave the signal for a general good evening, I
experienced a sensation of grief as if I had fallen from delicious
dreams into sombre reality. I had for so long a time reversed the order
of life, regarding it as a dream, and dreams as waking, that the dread
of being again alone was actually a terrible shock, and thoroughly
unnerved me.

I certainly did not as yet wish to admit that I could love another; but
it was certain that without thinking myself in love with Mademoiselle
dAillane, I had an extraordinarily friendly feeling for her. I had
observed her very carefully when she was not addressing me, and the more
familiar I grew with her beauty, which was of an uncommon order, the
more I was assured that I again experienced the same sensations awakened
by the adorable phantom; only this was a gentler fascination and
imparted a wonderful sense of spiritual bliss. That clear countenance
inspired absolute confidence and a sentiment of tranquil ardor
resembling faith.

Bernard, who had no more idea of going to sleep than myself, talked with
me until two oclock in the morning. We had lodged in the same room, no
longer _la chambre aux dames_ nor even the one where I had been ill,
but a pretty apartment decorated in the style of Boucher, with the
rosiest and gayest of designs. There had been no more question of the
green ladies than if we had never heard them mentioned. While Bernard
was talking to me about his dear Caroline, he asked me what opinion I
had formed of his dear Flicie. At first I did not know how to answer
him. I feared to say too much or too little. I evaded the question by
asking him, in my turn, why he had spoken to me so little of her.

Is it possible, I said, that you like her less than she likes you?

I would be a strange animal, he replied, if I did not adore my
sister. But you were so taken up with certain ideas, that you would not
even have listened to my praises of her. And then, situated as we were
at that time, my sister and myself, it would not have looked very well
for me to appear as if I were proposing her to you.

And how could you have had the appearance of doing me such an honor.

Ah! because a singular fact exists that I have been many times on the
point of mentioning to you and that you must have certainly already
remarked, the surprising resemblance between Flicie and the nymph of
Jean Goujon whom you were so much in love with as to bestow its features
upon your phantom.

Then I was not mistaken, I exclaimed, mademoiselle is a beautiful
counterpart of this statue.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Madame d'Ionis: the dowager d'Ionis, mother of Bernard and Flicie, recently widowed
-Bernard: son of Madame d'Ionis, in love with Caroline
-Caroline: daughter of the d'Aillanes, in love with Bernard
-Abb Lamyre: a friend of the family, known for his philosophical couplets
-Zphyrine: the family's housekeeper, in mourning
-M. d'Aillane: father of Caroline, in good relations with Bernard
-Mademoiselle d'Aillane: Caroline, in love with Bernard
-The nymph of Jean Goujon: a statue, the likeness of which Mademoiselle d'Aillane bears