Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
TWO

The Boneheads of Dhil


The planet Dhil and its enormous satellite, called "Lune" in lieu of
the utterly unpronounceable name its inhabitants gave it, are almost
twin worlds, revolving about their common center of gravity and
circling as one about their sun in its second orbit. In the third orbit
revolves Uhal, a planet strikingly similar to Dhil in every respect of
gravity, atmosphere, and climate. Furthermore, Dhilians and Uhalians
are, to all interests and purposes, identical.[1]

[Footnote 1: For the explanation of these somewhat peculiar facts,
which is too long to go into here, the reader is referred to
_Transactions of the Planetographical Society; Vol. 283, No. 11, p.
2745_.--E.E.S.]

In spite of these facts, however, the two peoples had been at war with
each other, most of the time, for centuries. Practically all of this
warfare had been waged upon luckless Lune.

Each race was well advanced in science, and each had atomic power,
offensive beams, defensive screens. Neither had even partial
inertialessness, neither had ever driven a spaceship to any other solar
system, neither had ever heard of Galactic Civilization.

At this particular time peace of a sort existed. More precisely, it
was a truce of exhaustion and preparation for further strife. It was a
fragile thing indeed, and existed only upon the surface. Beneath, the
conflict raged as bitterly as ever. The discovery by the scientists,
inventors or secret service of either world of any superior artifice of
destruction would kindle the conflagration anew, without warning.

Such was the condition obtaining when Darjeeb of Uhal blasted his
little spaceship upward away from Lune. He was glowing with pride of
accomplishment, suffused with self-esteem. Not only had he touched off
an inextinguishable atomic flame exactly where it would do the most
good, but as a crowning achievement he had taken and was now making
off with no less a personage than Luda of Dhil herself--the coldest,
hardest, most efficient Minister of War that the planet Dhil had ever
had!

Now, as soon as they could extract certain facts from Luda's mind,
they could take Lune in short order. Then, with Lune definitely theirs
to use as a permanent base, Dhil could not possibly hold out for more
than a couple of years or so. The goal of generations would have been
reached--he, Darjeeb, would have wealth, fame and--best of all--power!

Gazing gloatingly at his furiously radiating captive with every eye he
could bring to bear, Darjeeb strolled over to inspect again her chains
and manacles. Let her radiate!

She could not touch his mind; no mentality in existence could break
down his barriers.

But physically, she had to be watched. Those irons were strong, but so
was Luda. If she could succeed in breaking free he would very probably
have to shoot her, which would be a very bad thing indeed. She had not
caved in yet, but she would. When he got her to Uhal, where the proper
measures could be taken, she would give up every scrap of knowledge she
had ever had!

The chains were holding, all eight of them, and Darjeeb kept on
gloating as he backed toward his control station. To him Luda's shape
was normal enough, since his own was the same, but in the sight of a
Tellurian she would have appeared more than a little queer.

The lower part of her resembled more or less closely a small elephant,
one weighing perhaps three hundred and fifty pounds. There were,
however, differences. The skin was clear and fine, delicately tanned;
there were no ears or tusks; the neck was longer. The trunk was
shorter, divided at the tip to form a highly capable hand; and between
the somewhat protuberant eyes of this "feeding" head there thrust out a
boldly Roman, startlingly human nose. The brain in this head was very
small, being concerned only in the matter of food.

Above this not-too-unbelievable body, however, all resemblance to
anything Terrestrial ceased. Instead of a back there were two mighty
shoulders, fore and aft, from each of which sprang two tremendous
arms, like the trunk except longer and stronger. Between those massive
shoulders there was an armored, slightly retractile neck which carried
the heavily armored "thinking" head. In this head there were no mouths,
no nostrils. The four equally-spaced pairs of eyes were protected and
shielded by heavy ridges and plates. The entire head, except for its
juncture with the neck, was solidly sheathed with bare, hard, thick,
tough bone.

Darjeeb's amazing head shone a clean-scrubbed white. But Luda's--the
eternal feminine!--was really something to look at. It had been sanded,
buffed, and polished. It had been inlaid with bars and strips and
scrolls of variously colored noble metals and alloys; then decorated
tastefully in red and green and blue and black enamel--then, to cap the
climax, _lacquered_!


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

- Darjeeb of Uhal blasts his spaceship away from Lune, taking captive Luda of Dhil, the planet's Minister of War.
- Luda is physically chained and manacled, and Darjeeb plans to take her back to Uhal to extract information from her.
- Luda is a queer-looking creature to a Tellurian, with a lower body resembling a small elephant's and a human-like head on a long neck.
- Darjeeb's head is also armored and strange-looking, and Luda's is decorated with metal and enamel.