What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Evidently they were now well started on their interesting voyage. What
the outcome was going to be could only be guessed at; but hope ran high
in all their hearts.

Theres our friend, the enemy, just as we expected would be the case!
cried Ballyhoo Jones as he pointed to a dim spot several miles off,
and which seemed to be some sort of black boat, also bound south.

Im looking at something else, though, remarked Oscar. That bank of
clouds lying low along the horizon in the south seems to have a storm
hidden in it. And we are heading straight that way in the bargain.

Oh! perhaps its only a little squall, such as they often meet in
these waters, Jack was saying. The West Indian hurricane season is
pretty well over by now, you know, or else the expedition wouldnt have
started when it did.

But even a little storm would send the waves clean over this low
boat, suggested Ballyhoo. Im not a born sailor, and I dont want to
seem bothered when theres no danger, but you can see how we wallow at
times right now, when we run smack up against one of those long swells.

You mustnt forget, Oscar told him, that weve got one way of
snapping our fingers at the wind and the waves when the time comes.

Course you mean by submerging, Oscar, continued the other, grinning
amiably. I had that in mind all the while, but was only fishing to
find out what you other fellows thought about it. The wind seems to be
increasing a whole lot, and, yes sir, those clouds are rising right
now. Whee! looks like well experience our first dip below the waves
before another hour goes by.

As the clouds rose higher the sea began to look black. Although they
knew what caused this the boys could not keep from feeling a little
anxious, especially when the waves commenced to splash them with scud,
as they struck the bow of the dipping submarine and broke.

They were really glad, therefore, when the captain ordered them to go
below, as it was necessary to make preparations against foul weather.
For some time afterwards the little boat labored heavily, until
Ballyhoo began to feel the first signs of uneasiness in the pit of his
stomach.

All of them felt relieved when they discovered that they were
commencing to sink. The water tanks were being filled rapidly, and
before long they realized that in truth they had vanished from the
surface of the sea.

How calm it seemed down there, with the engines once more taking up
their regular pulsations. The boys glued their eyes to the thick
plate-glass observation bulls-eyes, but all they could see when the
searchlight was turned on was rushing green water all around them.

Doubtless the storm raged above as the squall spread over the sea, but
safe in the stanch little submarine, far beneath the troubled surface,
they knew nothing of it. By degrees the three chums became more used
to their strange surroundings. The experience of novelty began to wear
away. When one becomes accustomed to anything it no longer has the
power to excite wonder, and give the same kind of thrill.

Later on they could sleep calmly when lying at the bottom of the sea,
even though the manufactured air did seem queer, and breathing not
as comfortable as under ordinary conditions, with the pure article to
inhale.

Hours passed during which they continued to forge ahead. Oscar figured
that they were making something like eight knots an hour while pushing
through the depths.

Then came the time when they arose to take an observation through the
periscope. The boys, of course, had to be allowed a chance to see, of
which they hastened to avail themselves eagerly.

Never would they forget that first experience at looking through the
periscope of a submarine far out at sea. The still heaving waters,
running far away to the horizon, looked startling to their unaccustomed
eyes. It seemed as though they might be lying on the edge of the world
itself, and looking over a vast undulating plain.

When the captain judged that it would be safe to come up, as the storm
had passed, and the sea was no longer rough, he gave the order.

Again the boys sought their old stand up on the small deck where the
ventilation shafts protruded, and the periscope reared its lofty head.

Everywhere they looked the same tumbling waters met their gaze. Not a
vessel was in sight, even through the glasses.

Weve given the _Dauntless_ the slip, all right! Ballyhoo hastened to
boast after he had made sure of this fact.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the main conflict. The scene takes place on a submarine, and the main conflict is between the submarine and the enemy ship.