Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The faces of the firemen were smoke-blackened and grimy. Already several
had collapsed from the intense heat. These were helped back to the shaft
and sent up. Others came down to take their places.

Hughs eyebrows crisped from the heat. The men were all naked from the
waist up. Below this they wore only cotton overalls and boots. These
were licked to a char thin and fragile as paper. The skin peeled from
Hughs body in flakes where anything touched it.

From above came an ominous sound.

Back, ordered Carstairs.

The roof came down, an avalanche of dirt and rock and timber. So close
was McClintock to it that the air shock almost knocked him down.

Before the dust had settled Carstairs sent his sappers at the job of
clearing out and timbering the tunnel.

Steadily the rescuers gained ground. Every few minutes they relayed each
other. Each man knew that his position was one of great danger. The fire
might reach the shaft and cut them off from above. A cave of rock might
release gases which might kill either by explosion or asphyxiation. A
change of draught might fling a great tongue of fire at them and wipe
the whole party out in a few seconds. Yet the work went on, hour after
hour, steadily and without ceasing. For somewhere in one of the
crosscuts which they were approaching, a group of haggard, anxious men
were awaiting rescue, unless the fire had already snuffed out their
lives.

The crosscuts just ahead, Carstairs announced.

Byers was at the nozzle. The little man had stuck it out gamely. Only
four of the original party were still working. The others had been
relieved and sent to the surface.

McClintock had just returned from the shaft where he had been with a man
overcome by the heat. He was for the moment the freshest man in the
group.

Two volunteers to search the crosscut while the rest hold back the
fire, called Carstairs.

Ill go, said a Maine lumberjack.

Same here, added Hugh.

They waited, watching for a chance to plunge into the side tunnel when
the fire was momentarily low.

Now, said McClintock, and he dived at the opening in the wall.

The lumberjack followed him. So intense was the heat at the entrance to
the crosscut that a little pool of water on the rock floor was boiling
angrily. As they pushed deeper into it the heat decreased.

Hugh shouted. A voice answered his call.

He moved forward and presently stumbled over a body.

How many in here? he asked.

Eleven.

Where are the others?

Dead, came the answer. Cut off by fire damp before we reached the
crosscut.

All of you able to travel?

Yes.

Hugh heard the sound of footsteps stumbling toward him. Men came abreast
of him and went past. He counted themeleven. Then he stooped and
picked up the body at his feet. In another minute he was staggering into
the drift with his burden.

The fire fighters fell back past the charred timbers and the hot rocks
of the wall.

Youre through, boys, Carstairs said. Ill send a fresh crew in to
blast down the mouth of the drift and build a bulkhead against the fire.
Then well close the shaft and let er die down for lack of air.

The first thing Hugh did when he reached the foot of the shaft was to
find the revolver he had hidden beneath a car; the next was to look over
the rescued men for the one he wanted. He found him, standing beside
Robert Dodson close to the cage. The mine owner was sobbing with the
strain he had undergone. His nerve had gone. The big hulking figure at
his back was Sam Dutch.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is intense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of urgency and danger.