Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
VII

PASSENGERS FOR HOLLAND


The channel boat Flushing was waiting the boat train that left London
Bridge Station at eight P.M. The grizzled skipper leaned from the bridge
and watched the queue of travelers wind slowly along the quay, disappear
into a little house and emerge somewhat ruffled in feelings.

A few of these travelers were turned back. One, at least, was bundled
into a closed van, which climbed the hill and was swallowed by the night
mist. This van bore the magic legend H.M.S. on its barred sides.

Fay had some misgivings concerning the inspection he expected at the
small house on the quay. He had not yet learned the value of the little
silver greyhound which he wore in his left lapel. The protesting
commercial traveler, who had shared the first-class compartment on the
train coming down, had some difficulty in convincing three sage-faced
men in the small house that he was merely bound to Holland in the
interests of a Brixton firm that manufactured electrical goods.

The traveler was passed finally. He went through the door and hurried up
the gangplank to the waiting Flushing. The three serious men turned and
glanced at Fay, who stood with the corner of his coat turned down and
the silver greyhound showing slightly.

Each inspector stared keenly, first at Fay and then at the black bag he
carried. Each lifted a hand and covered a chin. Each bowed as the hands
dropped and motioned toward the door through which the electrical
salesman had fled precipitately.

A Kings courier! Fay heard one say. I wonder wholl be next.

The next to enter the dingy house on the quay was the Scot who had
sprung aboard the boat train after being signaled by MacKeenon. He was
passed after he had opened his overcoat, his coat, and had thrust a
wrinkled thumb under a suspender strap, pinned upon which was a gold
insignia that was graven with two letters, M.P.

Gold follows silver, tonight, said one of the inspectors. There is
something going to happen in Holland.

The boat cast off from the quay and, clearing the buoys, struck through
the murk on the long leg to the Continent. A winding shroud came down
the sea and blotted out every light. A moaning lifted from the waves.
Above this moaning sounded the steady clanking of the Clyde-built
engines which were of four-expansions and balanced.

Knot by knot, league over league, the fast boat cut through the night.
The grizzled skipper placed his trust in providence and held his North
Sea course, edging as the hours went on toward the Lowland Country.

Fay had secured a mid-ship cabin, locked the door behind the black bag,
and emerged to the rail which was lined with passengers suffering from
choppy seas and lunging gyrations calculated to upset the staunchest
stomach.

He fished in his vest pocket, drew forth a black cigar which the
electrical salesman had given to him on the train, and lighted it by a
scratch of a match on the sole of his shoe.

It glowed, and cast his face in a ruddy prominence. A little old man,
with a bundle, shrank against a ventilator and tried to merge with its
shadow. Fay noticed this motion but saw no relation between it and his
mission.

A touch on his arm denoted the commercial traveler who had been
searching the ship for a companion.

Muddy night, he said, glancing at his own cigar. Beastly wet for my
samples, which I hope are below.

Fay nodded. He drew down his cap, removed the cigar from his mouth,
flecked off the gray ash, and studied the glowing end.

Holland, he asked, is over there? The cigar pointed like a pistol
toward the starboard bow. It swung a point and steadied. It recoiled
back into Fays mouth.

Over there, yes, said the commercial traveler. Well dock at sun-up,
if there is going to be a sun on this murky morning.

Fay glanced at the man. A question revolved and took form as he waited
for the boat to resume an even keel. This new war? he asked, this
commercial thing which has come up? They say its going to be a whale of
a task, for England.

The salesman, whose samples consisted of a line of motors and rheostats,
had been led straight upon his pet hobby. He was the forerunner of the
horde who were to bring about the final triumph of the Allies over the
Mittel nations. His companions swarmed in Mesopotamia, in Palestine, in
Siberia, in the Balkans, and in the old markets of Holland and the North
Countries.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The scene is set at a port in England, where a boat is about to depart for Holland. Fay, a courier, is nervous about the inspection he expects at the port. However, he is eventually passed and boards the boat. The commercial traveler who was also on the train with Fay strikes up a conversation with him. They discuss the current war and the commercial traveler's samples. The boat sets off into the night.