What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Living as cheaply as he could, his money would go done at last.  What
then?  Write home for more?  He shuddered to think of such a thing.
If his first friend, Captain Vesey, had only turned up now, he would
have gone and asked to be taken as a hand before the mast.  But
Captain Vesey did not.

A young man cannot be long in Sydney without getting into a set.
Archie did, and who could blame him.  They were not a rich set, nor a
very fast set; but they had a morsel of a club-room of their own.
They formed friendships, took strolls together, went occasionally to
the play, and often had little "adventures" about town, the
narratives of which, when retailed in the club, found ready
listeners, and of course were stretched to the fullest extent of
importance.

They really were not bad fellows, and would have done Archie a good
turn if they could.  But they could not.  They laughed a deal at
first at his English notions and ideas; but gradually Archie got over
his greenness, and began to settle down to colonial life, and would
have liked Sydney very much indeed if he had only had something to do.

The ex-policeman's wife was very kind to her lodger.  So was Sarah;
though she took too many freedoms of speech with him, which tended to
lower his English squirearchical dignity very much.  But, to do her
justice, Sarah did not mean any harm.

Only once did Archie venture to ask about the ex-policeman.  "What
did he do?"

"Oh, he drinks!" said Sarah, as quietly as if drinking were a trade
of some kind.  Archie asked no more.

Rummaging in a box one day, Archie found his last letter of
introduction.  It had been given him by Uncle Ramsay.

"You'll find him a rough and right sort of a stick," his uncle had
said.  "He was my steward, now he is a wealthy man, and can knock
down his cheque for many thousands."

Archie dressed in his best and walked right away that afternoon to
find the address.

It was one of the very villas he had often passed, in a beautiful
place close by the water-side.

What would be his reception here?

This question was soon put at rest.

He rang the bell, and was ushered into a luxuriously-furnished room;
a room that displayed more richness than taste.

A very beautiful girl--some thirteen years of age perhaps--got up
from a grand piano, and stood before him.

Archie was somewhat taken aback, but bowed as composedly as he could.

"Surely," he thought, "she cannot be the daughter of the rough and
right sort of a stick who had been steward to his uncle.  He had
never seen so sweet a face, such dreamy blue eyes, or such wealth of
hair before.

"Did you want to see papa?  Sit down.  I'll go and find him."

"Will you take this letter to him?" said Archie.

And the girl left, letter in hand.

Ten minutes after the "rough stick" entered whistling "Sally come up."

"Hullo! hullo!" he cried, "so here we are."

There he was without doubt--a big, red, jolly face, like a full moon
orient, a loose merino jacket, no waistcoat or necktie, but a
cricketer's cap on the very back of his bushy head.  He struck Archie
a friendly slap on the back.

"Keep on yer cap," he shouted, "I was once a poor man myself."

Archie was too surprised and indignant to speak.

"Well, well, well," said Mr. Winslow, "they do tell me wonders won't
never cease.  What a whirligig of a world it is.  One day I'm
cleanin' a gent's boots.  Gent is a capting of a ship.  Next day
gent's nephew comes to me to beg for a job.  Say, young man, what'll
ye drink?"

"I didn't come to _drink_, Mr. Winslow, neither did I come to _beg_."

"Whew--ew--ew," whistled the quondam steward, "here's pride; here's a
touch o' the old country.  Why, young un, I might have made you my
under-gardener."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the reader to the
protagonist's new life in Australia. He has recently arrived and is
struggling to find his place in the world. This scene also serves to
establish the character of Mr. Winslow, who will become an important
mentor figure for Archie.