What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Elizabeth and David came to a simultaneous halt, and looked around.

Apparently, remarked Elizabeth, they are not here.

The remark seemed somewhat over-obvious.

David went across the short grass to the very margin of the river, and
looked right and left.

It would seem, said he smiling, that you are right.

All around lay the drowsy summer silence, broken only by the faint
humming of insects, and the ripple of water against the stones.

What, demanded Elizabeth, is the next move?

Up stream, said David promptly.

Why so certain? asked Elizabeth.

David looked at her with something of the smile one might give to an
inquiring child.

Will you, he said, look down stream, and then look up stream; and I
fancy you will perceive the answer yourself.

Elizabeth looked down stream.

Here, as already mentioned, the river ran smoothly, bordered by the
flat meadow and the wood. Some hundred yards distant the wood gave
place to grass land, flat and open. Up stream the ground became uneven,
rough, covered with blackberry bushes and small trees. The river itself
was interspersed with little rocks, while sight of it extended not more
than fifty yards ahead.

You mean that up stream there are possible surprises, suggested
Elizabeth.

Precisely, said David. No one, man, woman, or child, turns to the
obvious when there is the unknown to explore, possible adventure ahead.

Elizabeth laughed.

I bow to your judgment, said she.

They turned up stream.

It was rough enough walking here. The river lay in a sort of gorge, the
wood on one side, the moorland on the other. A mere track ran along its
right bank, a narrow grass path. There was no sign of footprints. The
grass was short and springy, taking no definite impress on its surface.

David was obviously the leader of the expedition. He had taken complete
control of it, not masterfully, you understand, but merely because it
belonged to him by right to do so. He was in his natural element.

Elizabeth was conscious of totally new characteristics in him. All
trace of the child in false surroundings had vanished. The man element
had appeared in him, and had appeared strongly. There was a new
strength in him, a new decision. There was a curious air of confidence
about him, also a certain indefinable joyousness. It seemed an almost
incredible change, considering the brief space of time in which it had
been accomplished, nevertheless it was actual, real.

For the most part they pursued their way in silence. The sky, as you
may well guess, was gradually growing darker. Clouds had already
blotted out the sun.

Suddenly David gave a little exclamation. He bent to the ground, and
picked up something from beneath a blackberry bush. He turned it over,
then held it triumphantly towards Elizabeth. After all, it was only a
piece of brown paper.

But, demurred Elizabeth, is it _the_ piece?

David pointed to writing upon it.

Mr. Murphy Biddulph, Malford, read Elizabeth aloud. And then she
laughed.

David lifted up his voice and coo-ed, a long, far-reaching note.
Striking some distant rock, it was flung back to him in echo, but no
other cry came in response.

Theyve gone a pretty tramp, said David.

He looked around. A short distance ahead the wood levelled and thinned.
A gateway into it led to a wider path. A tree-trunk fallen across the
river, which here was nothing but a fair-sized stream, made approach to
the gate easy. David made for the tree-trunk. Giving Elizabeth a hand
across it, they went towards the gate.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author achieves this by describing the surroundings in detail and by showing the characters interacting with each other.