Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
The Prince gnawed his lip with bitter vexation.

"Your lordship was always most certain in disaster," he said
peevishly, "a long face carries a long tale."

"Unless we drive back Loudon we are like rats in a trap," went on
Murray ignoring the words.

"You forget Prestonpans, my lord."

The other shook his head fretfully.

"The men are tired and wearied of it all," he replied, "they want to
go home--they are not regular soldiers...."

"What would you say to talk like this?" said the Prince, turning of a
sudden upon Muckle John.

"Sir," he answered, "your troops are exhausted.  But in the mountains
you could resist the enemy until they recovered their strength."

"But there is no money--no sign of men nor arms.  What of
France--what of the English Jacobites?"

"What indeed?" said a low voice from the doorway.

Looking down upon them all stood a young man of about thirty--a thin,
slight, anxious-looking man dressed in black, carefully tended
clothes.  It was Mr. Secretary Murray, or, to give him his full name,
John Murray of Broughton.

"May the English Jacobites not escape their just punishment," he said
gravely, "should disaster await us," and he sighed and stared out
across the street.

"Shall I go north to assist Lord Cromartie?" asked Lord George
Murray, who hated Broughton.

The Prince frowned as though he would like to know the inner purpose
for such a plan.  Then, seeing none but that of reason and loyal
service, and yet doubting the latter very sincerely, he replied
almost gruffly:

"We will see what Sir Thomas Sheridan has to advise," whereat the
countenance of Lord George Murray grew dark with strangled rage.  For
a man who had risked his life and fortune and the lives of his people
to be dependent upon the whim of an Irish adventurer with nothing to
lose and everything to gain was enough to ruin any cause.  Already
the end of the '45 was in sight.

Muckle John bowed and drew Rob away.  A few minutes later Lord George
Murray passed them with a face like murder, bound for the North.

"Maybe ye see now," said Muckle John, "how the wind blows.  There
goes as good a soldier as can be, but ye'll find that whatever he
advises will be contradicted by any poor Irish creature or Frenchman
who may be passing.  The longer Cumberland sits snug in Aberdeen the
more time will there be for hectoring and desertion and the beginning
of the end.  Wae's me," he sighed, "I would give something to be upon
the quay of Dunkirk, for there's nothing here for the likes o' me but
a rope with a bit noose."

The business of procuring arms for Rob was next undertaken, and it
was a proud day indeed when he strapped a targe on his back, and a
claymore to his side.  He was attached to Lord George Murray's flying
column in pursuit of Lord Loudon, and so on the evening of that day
he bade farewell to Muckle John.

The march north was uneventful, and in due course, with only a
victorious expedition to his credit, Rob returned with the Duke of
Perth to Inverness and was dispatched into Atholl with Lord George
Murray's force.

During the succeeding weeks, the guerilla engagements of the
detachments in Atholl and Lochaber were completely successful, while
in the east the Prince kept at bay the dragoons of General Bland.  It
is not fully appreciated that the campaign around Inverness was no
less brilliant and successful than the other engagements of the
Jacobite rebellion.

But the war was nearing a crisis.  Cumberland having waited for the
spring, moved out of Aberdeen on April 8, his force consisting of six
battalions of foot and a regiment of dragoons.  At Strathbogie,
General Bland, with six battalions, Kingston's Horse and Cobham's
Dragoons, awaited his advance, while at Old Meldrum were three
battalions under Brigadier Mordaunt.  In this manner the entire army
advanced on Inverness.

The swiftness of their approach was wellnigh fatal to the Prince.
His troops were scattered on foraging and isolated expeditions, while
Lord Cromartie was as far away as Sutherlandshire.  Many clansmen had
returned home while a great number were wandering the country-side in
search of food.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The Prince and his advisors are discussing their options as they face defeat by the English army. They consider fleeing to France, but decide instead to go to the mountains and try to resist the enemy until they recover their strength. However, they are short on money and men, and the situation looks bleak.