Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XX

AN UNWILLING ACCOMPLICE

It was at the corner of Church Street on the week following the
engagement at Glenmoriston, that Miss Macpherson, busied about a few
purchases, stopped very sharply opposite the tavern of Major James
Fraser (commonly known as Castleleathers) and peered with signs of
agitation at a printed paper hung in the window.  A casual onlooker
would never have known Miss Macpherson was even faintly moved by what
she read, but a close observer would have seen her mouth close
tightly, her brows droop over her keen eyes, her hands clutch the
parcels in her arms spasmodically.  It was enough to startle any
woman.  Indeed, most people would have lost their heads, and done
something foolish.

For the contents of the paper were principally devoted to a personal
description of one "Rob Fraser, a rebel at large, dressed in a kilt
of the Fraser tartan with a dark coat--sixteen years and over--of
strong build and dark-haired, who was in arms against the Government
at Culloden and has since broken prison from Fort Augustus, skulked
with desperate rebels and recently killed, in company with one called
Muckle John, a notorious Jacobite, a number of his Majesty's forces
in the country of Glenmoriston.  Whoever shall lay the said Rob
Fraser by the heels shall receive the sum of fifty pounds," and so on.

There was much more, but Miss Macpherson, sick at heart, walked
slowly away.  It would not do for her to be seen reading the thing.
Her mind was stunned for a moment.  She did not notice where she
went, or the passers-by.  It was only when she knocked against a
great man standing at the corner of the street that she started and
looked up.

It was Castleleathers.

She knew him slightly as a distant cousin of Rob's father, but would
have gone on her way had he not greeted her.

"A fine day, Miss Macpherson," he said loudly, as a couple of
soldiers tramped past them along the road, and then in a low tone,
"have you news of Rob?"

"No," she replied, "and no news is like to be good news in these
times.  What set him meddling with such things--the feckless loon?"

He jerked his head towards his house.

"Come away in," he whispered, "we must see what can be done."

Together they entered the place and going upstairs came to an upper
room.

He was a very heavy, red-faced, helpless kind of man.  His massive
incompetence under stress of emergency irritated her to tartness.

"It was here Rob met that soft-spoken gomeril, Muckle John," she
snapped.

"Aye, that it was," he replied, nodding moodily.

"And I suspect the man who gave him my address that evening, Major
Fraser."

"Dear me, Miss Macpherson, ye say so?"

"That I do, my man, and what's more he's in this very room."

With a pathetic simulation of surprise Castleleathers made as though
to look over his shoulder.

"It's yersel'," said Miss Macpherson coldly.

He tried to meet her stony stare, but failed.

"When ye mention it," he began like a man struggling to recall a
distant event, "when ye mention it, maybe I did say I was second
cousin to Rob who lived with his aunt near by--I'm no denying
anything mind ye, I merely say maybe I did in the course of
conversation, a pleasantry madam, a bit of gossip..."

"It's like to be a dear bit of gossip for Rob," she retorted, "and
that no so far away."

"Tuts! you take too serious a view.  It will all blow over--all blow
over.  There has been trouble before, I mind the '15, it was just the
same, and before a few months had passed all the folk were going
about their ways just the same and keeping their claymores oiled for
the next time.  Rob is a lad of spirit, Miss Macpherson, and they
will not take him."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

In the aftermath of the Battle of Culloden, the English government is offering a reward for the capture of any rebel Scots who participated in the uprising. Miss Macpherson, a distant relative of one such rebel, Rob Fraser, reads the notice with horror and dismay. She knows that if he is caught, he will be executed.
She goes to the tavern of Major James Fraser (who is related to Rob's father), hoping to find some help or information. Instead, she finds that he is the one who turned Rob in to the authorities. Enraged, she berates him for his betrayal.
Major Fraser is unapologetic, and tries to convince Miss Macpherson that it is all for the best. He insists that the rebellion will eventually blow over and that Rob will be forgotten. Miss Macpherson is not convinced, and leaves in a fury.