Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The three comrades were now about to start forth on an expedition that
really dwarfed their previous successes by virtue of its daring. This
fascinating project had come about in a peculiar fashion which may as
well be explained here and now while Oscar and Ballyhoo impatiently
await the coming of Jack.

To the Jones home in Melancton had come one day a queer old gentleman
who turned out to be an uncle of Ballyhoos mother. This Abner Crawley
had led an adventurous life, though no one would suspect it to look at
his mild blue eyes and hear his mellow, jolly laugh.

He had followed the hazardous profession of a deep sea diver, spending
years out in Far Eastern seas, diving with the natives for pearl
oysters, and in many ways had managed to accumulate quite a nice little
fortune.

The stories he spun to Ballyhoo, Oscar and Jack thrilled them with a
boyish desire to also see some of the wonders of that same submarine
world. Then, as the old man learned how they had already shown a
disposition to do and dare, he began to interest them in his latest and
greatest scheme.

It seemed he had been induced to take a third interest in a
venture that had for its main object the salvage of certain sunken
treasure-ships, which were located on a chart. In many cases
these ships had gone down scores and scores of years ago, but in
comparatively shallow water, so that it seemed feasible to reach them
through the agency of an ordinary diving suit; or better still, with
the assistance of a modern submarine built for that express purpose.

The boys of course hastened to read Jules Vernes startling book,
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, with which they were more or
less familiar beforehand. Their enthusiasm grew by leaps and bounds
as they started to discuss the possibilities of their being allowed to
join this strange expedition.

Jack, aided and abetted by his father, had conceived the idea that as
the undersea boat had been constructed particularly with a view to
cruising down at the bottom of the sea, and had unusual facilities for
allowing those aboard to see all that went on in subterranean depths,
it might be possible to secure a remarkable series of motion pictures
disclosing undreamed of wonders, the queer creatures that never came to
the surface, as well as the amazing forest of giant plants that grew
far down in the ever peaceful valleys of the ocean.

In the end it had worked out just as the scheming old master diver had
wished. The boys were given an opportunity to accompany the expedition
as representatives of Uncle Abner Crawley. They would be given all
sorts of chances to use their camera, and at the same time if fortune
favored the work of the divers one half of the Crawley third was to be
handed over to them.

And such was the final arrangement that had been made. They had
proceeded to Baltimore, made the acquaintance of their intended future
companions, taken up their limited quarters aboard the well named
_Argonaut_, and Jack was even now paying a parting visit to the post
office to get final mails, as well as to the express office for an
extra supply of films made especially to resist damage by warm, sticky
weather in the tropics.

There he comes at last! Ballyhoo presently announced, as a boy was
discovered heading their way, and well laden with bundles.

Jack turned out to be a well-built young chap, with a thoughtful face,
and the glow of an enthusiastic artist in his eyes. He soon climbed
aboard the strange boat, after which the Captains voice was heard
giving orders. Then they could feel the quiver that told them the
engines were beginning to work; cables were cast off, and a cheer broke
from the group on the shore, some of them laboring men belonging to the
shipyard, others relatives of those aboard, or it might be stockholders
in the venture.

Soon afterwards they had left the city of Baltimore behind them, and
were moving smoothly and swiftly down the bay. After that would come
the open sea, with its mysterious influences, its terrible storms,
dreaded calms, and all surrounded by the halo of romance of long-gone
centuries.

The three boys sat there on the miniature upper deck long after the
voyage had really begun, saying little, since their hearts naturally
enough were heavy because of the fact that they had finally severed the
ties that bound them to the loved ones at home.

And so they started down the great Chesapeake Bay, bound for the
tropics.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] See The Motion Picture Comrades Great Venture.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is adventurous and romantic. It is written in third person point of view, and the tone is excited and enthusiastic.