What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XVII

THE TEMPEST


Jessie, Amy, and Nell had spied, on their hike and picnic, an inlet in
the shore of the island facing the mainland, on the sands of which were
several fish houses and several rowboats and small sailboats that the
girls were sure might be had for hire.

"We might have shipped our new canoe down here and had some fun," Amy
said. "That bay is a wonderful place to sail in. Why, you can scarcely
see the port on the other side of it. And the island defends it from
the sea. It is as smooth as can be."

Nell was very fond of rowing, and she expressed a wish that they might
go out in one of the open boats. She would row. So the three chums
escaped the younger children the next afternoon and slipped over to the
other side of the island, across the sand dunes.

They found an old fisherman who was perfectly willing to hire them a
boat, and, really, it was not a bad boat, either. At least, it had been
washed out and the seats were clean. The oars were rather heavier than
Nell Stanley was used to.

"You need heavy oars on this bay, young lady," declared the boat-owner.
"Nothing fancy does here. When a squall comes up----"

"Oh, but you don't think it looks like a squall this afternoon, do
you?" Jessie interrupted.

"Dunno. Can't tell. Ain't nothing sartain about it," said the
pessimistic old fellow. "Sometimes you get what you don't most expect
on this bay. I been here, man and boy, all my life, and I give you my
word I don't know nothing about the weather."

"Oh, come on!" exclaimed Amy, under her breath. "What a Job's comforter
he is! Who ever heard of a fisherman before who didn't know all about
the weather?"

"Maybe we had better not go far," Jessie, who was easily troubled, said
hesitatingly.

"Come on," said Nell. "He just wants to keep us from going out far. He
is afraid for his old tub of a boat."

She said this rather savagely, and Jessie thought it better to say
nothing more of a doubtful nature, having two against her. Besides, the
sky seemed quite clear and the bay was scarcely ruffled by the wind.

The old man sat and smoked and watched them push off from the landing
without offering to help. He did not even offer to ship the rudder for
them, although that was a clumsy operation. When Jessie and Amy had
managed to secure it in place, while Nell settled herself at the oars,
the old man shouted:

"That other thing in the bow is a anchor. You don't use that unless you
want to stay hitched somewhere. Understand?"

"He must think we are very poor sailors," said Jessie.

"I feel like making a face at him--as Henrietta does," declared Amy. "I
never saw such a cantankerous old man."

Nell braced her feet and set to work. She was an athletic girl and she
loved exercise of all kind. But rowing, she admitted, was more to her
taste than sweeping and scrubbing.

Amy steered. At least, she lounged in the stern with the lines across
her lap. Jessie had taken her place in the bow, to balance the boat.
They moved out from shore at a fine pace, and even Amy soon forgot the
grouchy old fisherman.

There were not many boats on the bay that afternoon--not small boats,
at least. The steamer that plied between the port and the hotel landing
at the north of the island at regular hours passed in the distance. A
catboat swooped near the girls after a time, and a flaxen-haired boy in
it--a boy of about Darry Drew's age--shouted something to them.

"I suppose it is something saucy," declared Amy. "But I didn't hear
what he said and sha'n't reply. I don't feel just like fighting with
strange boys to-day."

Jessie was the first to see the voluminous clouds rising from the
horizon; but she thought little of them. The descending sun began to
wallow in them, and first the girls were in a patch of shadow, and then
in the sunlight.

"Don't you want me to row some, Nell?" Jessie asked.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author achieves this by describing the location and the weather, and by having the characters discuss their plans for the afternoon.