Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
IX

FACING A MOUNTAIN LION


As Teddy Manley rolled and tumbled down the incline, sudden stabs of
searing, burning pain shot through his body. There was one thought
paramount in his mind--that he must stop himself soon or be dashed
to death on the rocks below. His fingers sought to grasp some solid
object, that he might cling to it; but with a sob the boy realized
that there was nothing here to seize except loose stones which
mocked his efforts by falling upon him in an avalanche.

The thought came to him that perhaps this was the end--that he had
escaped all the other dangers of life, only to be killed,
ignominiously, so it seemed to him, by a fall down a mountain side.
Strangely enough, he could look at this picture with clear
imagination, even while his arms were pressing vainly the earth as
he shot downward. Never, it seemed, had he been able to think so
clearly. Flash, his pony, where was he now? Teddy hoped whoever had
him would treat him well. He deserved it. Flash was a good bronc.
None better. If only Roy hadnt-- That small tree just below--reach
out and grab it--hold on--hold on--

With a breath-taking jolt, Teddy hit the tree and clutched
desperately at its slim trunk. For a second that seemed an eternity,
he clung there, hoping. Then a sharp crack, the tree gave way, and
Teddy slid down, down--

Below him a ledge of rock stuck its ugly lip out into space. Nice
drop, that--must be thirty feet. Those gray things at the bottom
must be boulders. Which one would he hit? Ah--h--

For one terrible moment Teddy hung on the edge. Then a swift
drop--and night closed about him with velvet wings.

How long he had lain there unconscious, Teddy never learned. He
opened his eyes upon a sky ripped and torn by red lightning flashes.
Idly he lay on his back, staring upward at the unusual spectacle of
a thunder storm without thunder or rain, and with red lightning
instead of white. Queer, that! Hed have to tell Roy about it. Where
was Roy, by the way? Hed enjoy this. He always did like sunsets and
such things. Poetry, too! Funny fellow. Reading books of verses!
Like mom, maybe. She used to be a school teacher. Denver, or some
place like that. Jimminy, look at that streak of fire! All the way
across the sky! Watch for the next one, now. Why, was the storm
over? Certainly there were no more lightning flashes. Seemed to be
clearing up. Wow, what a headache!

With a supreme effort that caused a wave of pain that almost
overpowered him, Teddy struggled to a sitting position. He looked
around him in a puzzled manner, trying hard to adjust his mind to
the scene about him. The sky was as blue as it always was, and there
was no sign of a storm. The red flashes had disappeared. In the
west, the sun, a huge ball of fire, was casting a radiance on the
forest below. It was nearly evening.

Teddy shook his head to clear it, then pressed his hand to his lips
to keep back a cry of agony. He must not give in. But, for a moment,
the boy fell back upon the rock, breathing hard.

When he raised himself again the searing sensations at the back of
his head had turned to dull, aching pain. Gingerly, the boy moved
first one leg, and then the other. They seemed all right. Neither of
his arms was broken. Taking a deep breath, Teddy determined to
stand. It was easy--just bend one leg under him, lean on his elbow,
and push upward. Then his head would have to come along, no matter
how much it wanted to lie quietly on the cool rocks. Now--one, two,
three! He was up!

Wondering how long his legs would support him, Teddy leaned weakly
against a wall of rock. Steady, now! Hed have to figure this thing
out. Here he was in a prison of rock. On three sides there arose the
bare, hard granite. The front of this rocky cubicle was open, and
Teddy staggered to the edge and looked over. Below him yawned a
sheer drop of two or three hundred feet. Now the question was, how
in thunder did he get here?

He had fallen, that was one sure thing. No doubt about that, Teddy
thought, as he looked ruefully at his torn clothes and bruised and
bleeding hands. But how did he get so sliced up? A fall would never
have done that. The fall could have caused that cut on his head, but
not these rents in his clothes. Why, he looked as though hed been
put through a meat-chopper.

If his head would stop whirling for a moment he might be able to
figure this out! Think, now. Thirsty--yes, he was thirsty. Awfully
thirsty. He must find some water. A spring. A spring! Why, he was
looking for a spring! Thats what happened! He and Roy were thirsty,
so they separated, trying to find that spring! Then that slide!


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Teddy Manley is rolling and tumbling down an incline when he is suddenly stopped by a tree. He hangs on the edge of a cliff for a moment before falling unconscious. When he wakes up, he has a headache and is confused. He does not know how he got to where he is. He stands up and looks around. He is in a rocky cubicle with a drop off of two or three hundred feet. He has no recollection of how he got there. His clothes are torn and he has cuts on his hands. He is thirsty. He tries to remember what happened before he fell. He and his friend Roy were looking for a spring to quench their thirst. They must have become separated. Teddy falls asleep and has a dream in which he is back at the spring with Roy. In the dream, he tells Roy about the red lightning he saw. He wakes up and realizes that the red lightning was real. He looks up and sees the sun setting. He is determined to find a way out before it gets dark.