Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
IX THE DIVER AT WORK


Shortly afterwards the captain came along, and they seized upon him.
He was looking anything but downcast, and in reply to the flood of
eager questions with which the Camera Boys deluged him imparted the
information that to the best of his belief they had actually run into
the object of their search.

He also told them that it was his intention to stand by the hulk until
morning, and then get busy carrying out the plans that had long ago
been arranged.

Of course it would not be necessary to remain below during the night,
so he was about to give the signal to the engineer and the man at the
wheel to rise to the surface; only strict orders were being passed
around that the utmost silence must be enforced; all lights, too, were
forbidden.

After the skipper had gone on the boys talked it over again.

Guess he hasnt forgotten that light on the Key, remarked Ballyhoo.

More than likely, added Jack, hes got that sly adventurer, Captain
Badger, on his mind. He knows that individual has played many a
desperate game, and also how hes said to be the most tricky subject
that ever led an expedition through a blockade.

Suppose then that we have come on the old hulk, Ballyhoo continued,
seeking further information, since he was not quite sure in his mind
about certain things, what would be the programme, do you think,
Oscar?

Oh! thats all been cut and dried this long while, he was told. Of
course we would mark the spot where the wreck lies in deep water, so
we could find it again, if for any reason we had to cut and run--for
instance, if we happened to see that other boat coming along, Oscar.

Yes, I understand all that, but how do they expect to get working at
the wreck, for I happen to know they have several divers suits aboard
here?

Listen, and Ill try to explain, the other went on. We carry a large
number of empty oil barrels in our small cargo space, also planks with
which to make a float, just as they do on the lakes in front of hotels
and cottages. Get that, Ballyhoo?

Surely, and I begin to see that youre going to say about the diving
part of it, too, Oscar. That float will make a working place for the
operation.

Just what it will, Oscar further explained. They have some sort of
windlass they use to help raise the diver, whose armor is terribly
heavy, you understand. It is also meant to lift up any cargo the man
who goes down may gather while working about the wreck. Sometimes this
is heavy machinery, or it may be a ships safe that theyre trying to
salvage.

But will a little float like that stand being knocked about by the
waves, for they must run pretty high here sometimes? Ballyhoo added.

But those are the times when no work will be attempted, he was told.
Theres also a chance, if the wind is coming from the quarter that I
think it is, well find that the Key itself will act as a buffer to the
waves, and on this side it will be almost calm.

I declare, you seem to think of nearly everything, Oscar, the Jones
boy exploded. Now, the captain said we were to ascend, but so far as I
can see were only moving around to another side of that great bunch of
stuff covering the wreck.

Then I reckon he means to approach from several different quarters,
proceeded Oscar, so as to get an idea of just how it lies. In that way
a mistake may be avoided such as would cost us dear in the end.

This sort of procedure continued for nearly an hour. By that time the
boys figured that they had run close to the wreck on as many as six
different occasions. There was no longer the slightest doubt about the
object lodged in the midst of that submarine growth being the hulk of
a long sunken ship. Thanks to the play of their powerful searchlight
they had been able to make out just how the wreck was lying, and also
figure which would be the best method of entering the same, when the
diver was sent down.

Finally they changed the programme, and the steady laboring of the
electric engines announced that the water ballast reservoirs were being
emptied. This meant the captain was bound for the surface again.

So they finally emerged, with every light either fully extinguished or
else so effectually concealed that there would not be the slightest
chance for a hostile eye to discover their presence there on the water.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the captain coming aboard and the Camera Boys eagerly questioning him. He tells them that they have likely found the wreck they were looking for, and that he plans to stay by it until morning. He also says that they will be allowed to come up to the surface for the night, but that all lights must be extinguished and silence must be kept.
The boys then discuss the captain's plans among themselves. They surmise that he is worried about Captain Badger, a known adventurer and trickster, and that he wants to be sure they are not seen by him. They also speculate on the captain's plans for the next day, guessing that he will use a float to work on the wreck.
The scene ends with the captain announcing that they will be going back up to the surface.