Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Anyhow the technical crew thought he was all right. So McCauley
submitted himself to the doctors in a sort of truculent readiness to
put up an argument if they said anything critical of his condition or
his readiness to go where nobody had ever gone before. With everything
else all ready, they'd have a nerve to suggest anything but a go-ahead!

They took his blood pressure and did a cardiogram, and they put a tape
around his chest and a stylus drew a crazy curve which showed the
way he was breathing. Then they took samples of his breath and his
blood and other body fluids, and his temperature and the electrical
resistance of his skin and forty-seven other things. They'd done all
this before. They'd done it while he was resting and while he was
taking hard exercise, when he was tired and when he'd just waked up
from a good night's sleep.

They had blown-up pictures of every square inch of his skin, so they
could check for sputters at high altitude. A sputter might occur if
a cosmic particle at just the right speed happened to hit him. He
hadn't any privacy left. The docs knew everything about him, except
that he was absolutely the right person for man's first ascent in a
pure rocket, and his return to Earth in one piece. No rocket had ever
landed intact, of course. They smashed. Invariably. But a way had been
worked out to get instruments back unshattered. That was the way he'd
land.

One of the doctors nodded.

"With that pulse rate your system's pumping out plenty of adrenalin.
That's good!"

McCauley relaxed a little. He watched as they checked his reflexes. He
could tell that they looked all right, anyway. They gave him a pencil
and timed him while he did a page of IQ stuff. In the past few weeks
they'd established his personal norm for all sorts of things, and now
they were checking to see whether anticipation pushed him too far
off normal. He began to sweat when he realized that he needed to act
exactly as usual, and they knew it, and he sweated more because of it.
They checked him over as they would a guinea pig before an experiment,
only he was the guinea pig. But he was desperately anxious for all this
to be over and for the experiment to start.

Presently they finished and looked at each other and nodded. Then one
of them said, "You'll do," and McCauley went almost sick with relief.
Then, infuriatingly, he knew from their expressions that they'd looked
for exactly that reaction. He couldn't do anything they wouldn't
analyze and think about. And he burned a little, but it was all right.
Everything was all right!

When Ed came out to the main part of the blockhouse again, Randy knew
from his expression that he'd been checked out for the flight, but he
asked politely:

"Mother and child doing well?"

By that time McCauley wanted to hug somebody for sheer joy, but instead
he said sedately,

"The doc says I'm a boy."

But just the same he was almost weak from the reaction to the ending of
his fears about what the doctors might decide. He looked at his watch.
Just about on schedule. Over in a corner somebody with a headphone
and chest mike was marking off items on a list he had before him. He
said, "Telemeter circuits," and paused. A voice evidently sounded in
his headphones, because he made a checkmark with his pencil. Then he
said, "Tracker circuits," and waited, and made another checkmark. As
McCauley walked on to where his voice was drowned out, he was still
saying toneless things into his chest mike and making checkmarks after
unhearable replies.

Randy closed the door of the cubicle where McCauley would put on the
grav-suit. It was skin-tight and festooned all over with stray bits of
equipment. Randy helped him get into it.

"Lucky son-of-a-gun!" he said conversationally. "How do the Irish get
all the breaks?"

"Clean living," McCauley told him, "and a drag with the top brass."

It wasn't so, of course. Not the top brass part, anyhow.

His arm caught in the right sleeve and Randy helped him straighten
it. There were peculiar tubes built into the fabric. They were all
hooked to a grav-valve that would let compressed air into them at a
suitable pressure to tighten the suit and fight the tendency of his
blood and inner organs to be left behind when his bones and flesh were
accelerated by the full thrust of the rocket. A man wasn't built to
stand the acceleration he had to take. But the grav-suit would make up
the difference.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of humor. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is anxious.