Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
One of the crowd spoke: This Dodsons badbad clear to the bottom of
his heart. Hes been talkin about his wife to make excuses for what he
did.

Lets wait, boys, Scot said. Maybe Jerry will pull through.

No, lets finish the job, Scot. This fellows no good, anyhow. You know
it. So do we. Jean Poulette, the owner of a gambling house, pushed to
the front.

Im not thinking about him, Jean. Im thinking about that little mother
in the prairie schooner. Shes got trouble enough already, hasnt she?
Do you want to pile on moreto send her through life marked as the wife
of a man that was hanged? Aint that rather rough on her, boys?

Shell be well rid of him, a voice cried.

Sure, agreed McClintock. But not that way. I dont say this drunken
loafer is worth saving. But we cant hang him without striking a blow at
her. Shes sensitive, boys. It would hurt her way down deep.

Sho! Thas foolishness, Scot. Itd be a lil shock at first maybe, but
afterwards shed just naturally be plumb pleased. Any of us would in her
place.

Say, who started this gabfest? demanded the man holding the other end
of the rope that had been slipped over Dodsons head. Lets hustle this
job through. I got a man to meet right soon.

McClintock met him eye to eye. You can go meet him right now,
Six-Fingered Pete. The hangings off.

Who says its off? blustered Pete.

I say so. Scot spoke quietly, his voice low and clear.

Someone elect you judge and jury, Scot? asked Poulette.

Sorry to interfere, boys. Ive just come in from seeing Mrs. Dodson.
Shes all broke up about the baby. You wouldnt want to make things
harder for her. It doesnt matter a billy-be-damn whether this fellow
lives or dies. Nobody cares about him. Hes nothing. Well hold him till
we see how Jerry comes outjust stick him in the calaboose.

If Scot was a dominating figure in the life of the camp it was not
because men walked in fear of him. He never looked for trouble or
avoided it. He never used his splendid strength and courage to bully
those weaker than himself. Even old Tom Todd, the Negro roustabout who
was the butt of the camp jokes, always met with respect from the dealer
at the Crystal. His influence was born of liking and admiration. It
maintained itself without effort on his part because he had the
qualities of leadership.

It was a part of his gift that he made men want to follow the path he
took. He usually knew exactly in what direction he wanted to go, but he
never hectored or was overbearing.

Poulette felt within himself a response to Scots warm appealing smile,
but he was ashamed to make a direct face about. Might as well go
through now. You cant ever do justice without hurtin some woman
somewhere.

An this bummer cetainly is ripe for a rope, added Pete.

I wouldnt lift a hand for him, Scot answered. Im still thinking of
that mothers aching heart, boys. Not one of us here was ever good
enough to his mother. Were a hard, tough lot. Weve travelled a heap of
crooked trails since we were kids at our mothers knees. Pete, you
hard-boiled old sinner, I met your mother in Sacramento last year, and
that little lady began to tell me about what a good boy youve always
been to her, how you send her money now, and how when you were a
freckled runt of a ten-year-old

Red as a beet, Pete interrupted roughly: Oh, hire a hall, Scot.

McClintock pushed his advantage home. The theme of his talk was mother
love. These big, overgrown boys reacted to it because each one of them
had enshrined in his own heart the memory of a mother he had many times
hurt and often neglected. The point Scot made was that they could now
pay part of the debt they owed their own mothers. It scored heavily.

I reckon Scots right, someone spoke up. If its gonna worry the lady
any, might as well postpone the necktie party.

Mobs are fickle and unstable of purpose. This ones mind began to veer.
Inside of five minutes Scot had the members of the lynching party
moulded to his view. They had no desire whatever to hang the poltroon
who had stabbed their friend, or, at least, the desire was subordinated
to a more imperative one.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person omniscient, and the tone is one of concern and compassion.