Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
II

_Ancient Town_


Carlin looked with a jaundiced eye on the scene widening out below
them. There was a blue ocean stretching eastward, a long green coast,
and an island that was covered by the grotesquely lofty buildings of an
extremely antiquated type of city.

This ancient town called New York was like a memento of the primitive
past. Not for a thousand years had men crowded their structures so
crazily together, or built them to such insane heights.

"It's like one of the bird-people's lofts on Polaris One!" exclaimed a
girl, laughing. "And how old it looks!"

Old? Yes. Pitifully old, like a withered beldame who endeavors still
to maintain stiff dignity. The city looked only half-occupied, vines
growing on some of the grotesque towers, parks ragged around the edges.

The spaceport, some distance northward amid low rolling hills, was so
small as to be inadequate for any decent world. Carlin's practised eyes
condemned the cracked, blackened tarmac, the ill-placed rows of docks,
the insufficient hangar and repair buildings.

The "Larkoom" landed softly. Carlin waited wearily until the squealing
rush of tourists was over, and then walked out into the soft yellow
sunshine. He looked around without interest. Landing on a new world was
no novelty to him.

But for a moment, he was startled by the air he breathed. It was so
sweet, so buoyant, so right. It was subtly stimulating, exhilarating
to the lungs. Then he realized the cause. All over the galaxy, the
descendants of Earthmen had conditioned planetary atmospheres with this
atmosphere of Earth as the desired norm.

He looked around uncertainly. The tourists were already being
shepherded by their tour-conductors toward some old monuments at the
far end of the spaceport. But he had no desire to follow them.

The psychotherapist had told him, "Live as nearly an ordinary Earth
life as you can. Your cure will be quicker if you do. Best thing would
be to lodge in some typical Earth home, if you can."

Carlin wondered where he could find such a lodging. There were a few
Earthmen about, spacemen, port officials and the like. He could ask one
of them.

He had met Earthmen before throughout the galaxy, for many of them
followed space as a trade. And he didn't much like them. A proud,
taciturn, half-sulky lot, they had always seemed to him.

"Can you tell me where I could find lodgings around here?" He asked a
lanky, lantern-jawed man in faded clothes.

The Earthman contemplated Laird Carlin with unfriendly eyes, taking in
his sun-darkened face, his pearl-colored synthesilk slacks and jacket,
every detail of his appearance that was alien here.

"Well, no," the fellow drawled coolly. "Don't know where a stranger
could get lodgin's round here."

He slouched on. Carlin flushed with anger at the scarcely veiled
hostility in the fellow's manner.

These blasted yokels of Earth! Living here on an old, outworn,
fifth-rate planet, resenting the progress and prosperity of the great
star-worlds, talking of everybody but themselves as "strangers"!

"And I'm supposed to live among them for a year!" he thought bitterly.

He started across the spaceport. He had noted a spick-and-span
chromaloy building with a half-dozen trim Control cruisers parked
nearby, and with the Control Council emblem on its wall. He could find
out something there.

The spaceport was a somnolent, slovenly place to Carlin's eyes. A
few star-ships, all of them freighters except the tubby "Larkoom," a
scattering of little inter-planet craft, a few workers lounging about.
Even the smallest world of the great stars would be ashamed of such a
port.

That soft yellow sun, he found, had a deceptive warmth. And walking was
tiring after days of the ship's artificial gravity. Then Carlin stopped
as he came abreast of a rickety little planet-ship.

Two Earthmen were inspecting its stern drive-plates--one of them a
stocky, red-faced young man, the other a lame younger fellow with a
crutch. Carlin asked them his question.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Carlin: a space-traveler who is looking for a place to stay in the ancient town of New York
-Girl: a tourist who is also visiting the ancient town of New York
-Lanky, lantern-jawed man: an unfriendly Earthman who Carlin asks for directions
-Spacemen: workers at the spaceport
-Red-faced young man: one of the spacemen inspecting a planet-ship
-Lame younger fellow: the other spaceman inspecting the planet-ship