What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"There is a bird eight feet high, partly cassowary partly ostrich,
that when attacked kicks like a horse or more like a cow, because it
kicks sideways.  But if I were to sit here till our good ship reached
the Cape, I could not tell you about half the curious, beautiful, and
ridiculous creatures and things you will find in Australia if you
move much about.  I do think that that country beats all creation for
the gorgeousness of its wild birds and wild flowers; and if things do
seem a bit higgledy-piggledy at first, you soon settle down to it,
and soon tire wondering at anything.

"But," continued the stranger, "with all their peculiarities, the
birds and beasts are satisfied with their get-up, and pleased with
their surroundings, although all day long in the forests the
cockatoos, and parrots, and piping crows, and lyre-birds do little
else but joke and chaff one another because they all look so comical.

"Yes, lad, Australia you will find is a country of contrarieties, and
the only wonder to me is that the rivers don't all run up-hill
instead of running down; and mind, they are sometimes broader at
their sources than they are at their ends."

"There is plenty of gold there?" asked Archie.

"Oh, yes, any amount; but----"

"But what, sir?"

"The real difficulty--in fact, the only difficulty--is the finding of
it."

"But that, I suppose, can be got over."

"Come along with me up on deck, and we'll talk matters over.  It is
hot and stuffy down here; besides, they are going to lay the cloth."

Arrived at the quarter-deck, the stranger took hold of Archie's arm,
as if he had known him all his life.

"Now," he said, "my name is Vesey, generally called Captain Vesey,
because I never did anything that I know of to merit the title.  I've
been in an army or two in different parts of the globe as a free
lance, you know."

"How nice!"

"Oh, delightful!" said Captain Vesey, though from the tone of his
voice Archie was doubtful as to his meaning.  "Well," he added, "I
own a yacht, now waiting for me, I believe, at the Cape of Good Hope,
if she isn't sunk, or burned, or something.  And your tally?"

"My what, sir?"

"Your tally, your name, and the rest of it?"

"Archie Broadbent, son of Squire Broadbent, of Burley Old Farm,
Northumberland."

"What! you a son of Charlie Broadbent?  Yankee Charlie, as we used to
call him at the club.  Well, well, well, wonders will never cease;
and it only shows how small the world is, after all."

"And you used to know my father, sir?"

"My dear boy, I promised myself the pleasure of calling on him at
Burley.  I've only been home for two months, however; and I
heard--well, boy, I needn't mince matters--I heard your father had
been unfortunate, and had left his place, and gone nobody could tell
me whither."

"No," said Archie, laughing, "it isn't quite so bad as all that; and
it is bound to come right in the end."

"You are talking very hopefully, lad.  I could trace a resemblance in
your face to someone I knew the very moment I sat down.  And there is
something like the same cheerful ring in your voice there used to be
in his.  You really are a chip of the old block."

"So they say."  And Archie laughed again, pleased by this time.

"But, you know, lad, you are very young to be going away to seek your
fortune."

"I'll get over that, sir."

"I hope so.  Of course, you won't go pottering after gold!"

"I don't know.  If I thought I would find lots, I would go like a
shot."

"Well, take my advice, and don't.  There, I do not want to discourage
you; but you better turn your mind to farming--to squatting."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the reader to the character of Captain Vesey and to establish his credentials as an experienced traveler and adventurer. The author also uses the scene to establish the setting and to provide some background information on Australia.