Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Some hours after midnight, Hi woke aching with cramps and dripping with
sweat: it was oppressively hot and still: all the forest was holding its
breath, as though about to do something dreadful. There was a
deliberation, even about the droppings from the trees. Golly, Hi
thought, it feels as though the earth were going to open. It was pitch
dark in the forest: the mist had gone from the trees, yet there was no
glimmer of any star: the moon, being young, was long since gone. The
stew of air gave Hi the feeling that a heaven of cast-iron was
descending bodily upon the tree-tops to squeeze the earth flat.

The suspense of waiting for the heaven to fall was broken suddenly by
thunder, rain and wind, all rising in violence until, at about an hour
after dawn, they reached a pitch such as Hi had not believed to be
possible. Then, while the forest was crashing with falling boughs and
trees, and the air all vehement water and flying fragments, the heart
suddenly went out of the storm; the darkness from above rolled away to
leeward, showing the sun. The wind, which had been a thing of death, at
once became a thing of healing: the storm was over: nature was freed
from prison: Hi could go on.

He could go on; but he had lost another complete day and the going was
changed. He was in a world of mud like the first chaos. All the wood was
littered with thousands of young leaves, twigs and caterpillars. The
millioned life, which had thrust at the first rains, had been washed to
a smalm by these last. The ground of the wood had been so worked by the
rain that it looked and trod like a ploughed field in a wet November. He
rode out of the wood, all streaming as he was, towards the gulley of the
pass. For one glorious minute, he saw all things glitter in the sun: the
warmth beat upon him like life itself; then the rain began again: not
heavy rain, but a steady trickle.

By this time, he was in the ravine of the pass into which every gulley,
meuse and cranny, as well as the gashes cut by the storm, had been
draining for many hours. A mess as of a dozen ploughed fields, of
different colours of clay, had been washed into the pass, plastered
there and sprinkled with boulders. Here and there boulders too big to
shift had stood as obstructions to the floods. Near these, small
boulders and ridges of rotten stone had been washed or flung so as to
form moraines or dams across the hollow of the valley. Sometimes these
dams held pools of water many feet in depth. All the pass rang with the
noise of falling water.

He went on, cold and soaked; on foot in the mud, leading a miserable
horse through pools, morasses and over stones. The rain fell steadily,
and there was no road nor signpost, nothing but the direction of the
gulley down the hill, the noise of water, sometimes birds, but never
beast nor man.

And the worse of it is, he thought, that I must be coming to that
place where I was to turn off, if I was to turn off. That was what he
meant, I think: that I had to go to the left of a crossing. I only hope
that it will clear before I reach the place.

It did not clear: it went on raining.

This is what father meant, he thought, when he said, Youll thank me
before the years out for sending you to a land of the sun.

He wondered much into what kind of country he had come, for he could see
so little, except the faces of rocks all streaming, then mist, then
folds of hill, from which streamers of rain came out and passed.
Presently he came to trees which had hard leaves that clacked: his teeth
clacked in sympathy. Not long after this, he came to a bridge, not over
but in a torrent; and here he had to blindfold his horse to get him
across. On the other side of the bridge, at a little distance above the
waters, was a stone with an inscription in Latin:

Pray for the souls
Of Espinar, Gamarro, Velarde.
Drowned here.

He wondered as he looked back at the bridge, with the water swirling
across it between the balusters of the parapets, how he had ever
crossed. He patted his horse for being such a sport. He judged that
this river must be the upper waters of the river at La Boca; but any
sense of direction was long since gone from him: he did not know where
he was.

Memory of his friends direction, that there was no road to the right,
made him edge to his left, whenever there was an opening. He was not on
any track or trail now, but in mud or scrub among the clouds; sometimes
rocks loomed out at him, sometimes trees. When he halted, as he
sometimes did, to shout, in the hope of an answer, he had no answer,
save the noise of the rain that wept as though all hope were gone.
Well, if I go on, I must reach somewhere, he said. I cant go back,
even if I wanted to, because the rivers rising, and nothing would take
me over that bridge again, with the water worse than it was. One good
thing about this rain is, that there wont be any forest fever yet,
since the rains arent at an end.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is one of suspense and foreboding. The tone is ominous, and the point of view is from Hi's perspective. The setting is a dark and stormy night in the forest, which adds to the sense of foreboding. The description of the weather and the environment creates a feeling of unease and dread.