Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
VIII

LURKING SHADOWS


A sanguine sun broke through the Holland mists as Fay strode briskly
from the docks and quays and entered the ancient city.

He took the first street which would lead him in the direction of a
little hotel, at one time patronized by international celebrities of the
underworld.

This hotel had fallen upon better days. The paint and woodwork about the
door were new. A smug respectability beamed from the windows and out of
the courtyard. A motor car, sans rubber tires, stood within this
courtyard. It had been made in Germany before the war. It was still
doing service for the Dutch proprietor.

Fay stood across the narrow street, set his bag at his feet and studied
the hotel from a score of angles. He could cross the wide Dutch cobbles
and register. It was most certain that the police would have his name,
native country, and prospective business within the time it would take
to attend to such matters.

He glanced about with the ranging eye of a tourist who would go on. The
street and two narrow mews or lanes echoed and rechoed with the clank
of wooden sabots, the squeak of poorly oiled wagon axles, and the voices
of market people who were streaming toward the quays and the canals.

Fay studied the situation and decided there was nothing to be gained by
waiting. He knew of no other hotel in the city. It would serve as a
lodging for the day and the night. It was clean, quiet and somewhat out
of the beaten track of those who administered the laws in that quaint
lowland capital.

There is that in the super-cracksman which is close to the actor. Fay
played his part to perfection as he finished his stare toward the hotel,
reached down and lifted the bag and crossed the street at a brisk walk.

He banged the door open like a British traveler who had been to the
continent before. He advanced to a tiny opening in a side wall, set down
his bag and called for the Htelier.

The broad face of the Matre dHtel was thrust through this opening
like a harvest moon in sight of plenty.

A room! said Fay incisively. Something for a day or two. I came on
the Flushing. Ill never go back on that damn boat, sir! Its an
outragethe North Sea service!

The proprietor was impressed. He knew that all Englishmen swore. Some
swore more than others. He put down Fays namewhich he gave as Dr.
Crutcher of Londonhis vocationwhich was stated to be a doctorand
his probable stay in Holland as less than a fortnight.

Fay followed a maid up to a second floor back room which overlooked the
courtyard and the steel-tired German car. He closed the door, tried to
lock it, then moved over a chair and pressed the top rung up and under
the knob.

He removed his coat, tossed his cap on the floor and lay back on the bed
with the thumb and forefinger of his right hand pressing against his
eyeballs.

He had much to do and little time to do it in. He reviewed the trip to
Holland. It was a wild project, if ever there was one. The only real
thing in the entire matter was the crinkling Bank of England notes in
his pockets and the knowledge that he was free to pass the door which
led from his room. He rose swiftly, crossed the floor, and pulled away
the chair. The binding bars of Dartmoor were still about him. The
constriction of closed places got on his nerves.

He summed the situation up as he stood behind a lace curtain and stared
at the courtyard. His keen, gray-crowned head was poised like a quick
bird as the events of the two days flashed over his brain.

From the moment of his release he had been haunted by the thought of
shadows. They reached and groped for him despite every effort he had
made to throw them off. He knew of the wide-flung power of Scotland
Yard. It never let a man go!

Then, for what reason, he argued, had they let him run scot-free? Had a
net already been spread into which he was bound to stumble? Or was it
the flicker of fortunes wheel that had turned his way at last?

He examined the lock of the little black bag, reached for his cap and
overcoat, and strode out of the room. The yielding door was so unlike
the iron horror at Dartmoor! He whistled gayly as he ran down the
ancient steps and burst out and into the glad light of day.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of mystery and danger. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is tense and foreboding.