Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
What do you mean, Annie? What money--what jewelry?

Nothing--nothing! I--I dont know what I am talking about.

But I must know. Now, darling, tell me.

Will you listen quietly, then, and not be angry with me--or with any
one?

I will promise to listen quietly, and not to be angry with you. That
is all.

Annie hesitated. She could not but know now on whom the blame of this
miserable misunderstanding between herself and her husband lay. No
explanation of Stephens infamous conduct to both of them occurred to
her yet; but, even in the midst of her indignation against him, the
pity she felt for the forlorn, weakly cripple urged her to shield him
from the consequences of the terrible anger she already saw gathering
in Harrys blue eyes.

I dont think I ought to tell you anything, she said, gently, until
I have found out whether there is not some explanation to be given of
the matter. You are looking angry already. Dont let us spoil this
beautiful, happy evening by unkind and harsh thoughts about anybody,
Harry. Wont you wait----

No, I wont wait! interrupted he, very sternly. Dont shrink away,
Annie; I love you for your sweet forgiveness; it is right for a woman
to be ready to forgive. But there is something else for me to do. Now
tell me all about it.

Not while you are in this mood, Harry. I will tell you when you have
promised to let it pass without a word of reproach, except just what
you may say to me.

You will tell me now, and without my making any promise, my darling,
said he very softly, drawing her up from her knees to a seat by his
side.

Annie had never before felt her will unable to carry out her purposes.
She struggled with herself now as she sat in the firm but gentle clasp
of her husbands arm, and saw his head bent in a listening attitude
toward hers. Then, feeling at last the irresistible force of a
resolution stronger than her own, she submitted--submitted in the most
winning way in the world, placing her little hands on either side of
his neck, and looking up at him with her sweetest, softest expression
of face to coax away his anger.

Then I must trust to your generosity, Harry. And, if you dont behave
generously and forgivingly about it, I shall think you are not glad
to have me again, for happiness ought always to make peoples hearts
softer.

He kissed her without answering in words; and she went on:

When Stephen first came to me with a letter from you, looking very
ill, very miserable--I thought he was going to die--he made me very
jealous and hurt me by telling me how much happier you were now you
were away from town and among country people again. He did not know
how fond I had grown of you, and that I was silly enough not to like to
hear how well you were getting on without me. Were you as happy as he
said, Harry?

I was happy just then, because Lord Lytham was beginning to show
confidence in me, and I saw my way to earning money and being with you
again. But, if he said I didnt miss you, he told lies.

He did not say that; and he had not the least idea how much it
mattered to me. But I was angry with you for sending me such a short
letter, and I thought you were enjoying yourself, and very likely
didnt care; so I tore up the long, loving letter I had written, and
sent you a short one saying nothing, like yours.

Oh, you little spiteful creature! I wrote that note four times before
I got one fit to send you; I was so afraid you would be offended if I
told you what I was going to do. I thought I would wait until I had got
on, and then come to you and show you that I could be just as fond of
you as if I had never been in a stable in my life. And, at any rate, I
thought, if I succeeded, you would think it was better than idling.

Better than idling! Oh, Harry, it is better than anything for you
to be successful and happy and--and fond of me! After a pause, she
continued, When he came the second time, he said you were not getting
on as fast as you wished.

That was true; I was in low spirits about it. Well?

Then he said it was very hard for a man without money to get on. He
said that himself, not that you had said it. And I was afraid you were
perhaps in serious difficulty for want of money, and I begged him to
take some that I had put away and didnt want.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its dialogue, which reveals the characters' inner thoughts and feelings. The tone is one of jealousy and anger, mixed with love and forgiveness. The point of view is from Annie's perspective.