What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XIII

NORINE ENTERTAINS


Leaving the horses to drink their fill at the watering trough, Roy
and Teddy hurried over towards the car, which had come to a stop
near the entrance to the ranch house.

Howdy, boys! Bug Eye called, as he alighted and opened the rear
door. The ladies was afraid I wouldnt get here before dark. But
they neednt have worried. I can make any place before dark! I got
you here O.K., didnt I? he asked proudly, as he helped Nell and
Ethel out of the auto.

You certainly did! Nell answered, with a laugh. Hello, Roy and
Teddy!

Hello, Nell! Roy greeted.

How are you, Ethel? asked Teddy. Have a good trip over?

Sounds as though we just landed from an ocean voyage! Ethel
laughed. Yes, we had a fine trip, Teddy. Bug Eye is such a careful
driver that--

_Careful_, maam? Bug Eye interrupted, pushing his sombrero back
and wiping the perspiration from his forehead with the back of his
hand. Careful? I guess you aint heard about the time--

Here it comes, Teddy remarked in an undertone.

About the time I was sent over to Eagles by the boss to bring back
a crate of eggs, Bug Eye went on imperturbably. You see--nope,
Roy, they didnt bring no bags except them two pocket-books in the
rear; you can tote them in if you want. As I was sayin, the boss
sent me down to Eagles to bring back a crate of eggs what was comin
in on the train. Now you know what a freight wrastler does to eggs.
Handle with care means Treat em rough to baggage heavers.

Well, as soon as I saw them eggs I knew what had happened. The
yaller was drippin down the sides of the crate an there wasnt a
whole egg in the lot. Thinks I, Ill cart the box home, anyway, an
show the boss. So I shoves her in the back of this here bus an sets
out for the 8 X 8. Well, sir, believe it or not, when I hit the
ranch, every last one of them eggs was back in their shells, just as
they were the day the hens laid em! _Careful!_ Why--

Whoa, Bug Eye, youre going around a curve! Teddy sang out. Take
it easy! Youll strain yourself! I guess the girls know by this time
what a careful driver you are.

We do, Nell said laughingly. We didnt even know we were riding!

With a nod of approval at this remark, Bug Eye once more took his
place behind the wheel, and with a shout of, telephone if you need
anything and Ill bring it over in the tin puddle-jumper, the
puncher started with a rush back to the 8 X 8.

Hes quite a boy, Roy remarked as, carrying the girls week-end
bags, or pocket-books, as Bug Eye called them, he led the way into
the house. Teddy went to put the horses in the corral for the night.

He surely is, Nell replied to Roy. Tell me, Roy, did you ever get
your horses back? she went on, her face suddenly serious.

Never did--yet, Roy answered. We--Teddy and I--saw them being
ridden, and we chased after them, but they got away.

And that fresh man in the checkered shirt! Ethel exclaimed. Have
you ever seen him again, Roy?

Once, was the grim answer. Hurriedly the boy opened the door and
stood aside to let the girls pass in. Oh, Mother! he called.
Visitors!

The sound of light footsteps descending the stairs was heard
immediately, and in a moment Mrs. Manley appeared. She greeted the
girls warmly and said that Belle Ada would be ready in a moment.

Roy, turn on the lights, please, wont you? his mother asked. He
pushed a wall-button, and a soft glow immediately illuminated the
room. Then, as Mrs. Manley saw the girls glance up in apparent
surprise, she said, smiling a little: Yes, we have electric
lights--and everything. Mr. Ball has them, also, as you must have
noticed. You see most of the ranchers around here have their own
gasoline motors which generate the current. But take off your
things, wont you? You are tired and dusty, so come upstairs. Belle
is eager to see you.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the characters of Nell and Ethel, and to establish the setting of the story. The author also uses this scene to foreshadow the conflict of the story, by introducing the character of the "fresh man in the checkered shirt."