Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
We taught and trained Devlin as we would train a dog, and he learned
readily. He first learned to pull a rope with us, and soon understood
the meaning of "belay." He learned to sweep and scrub decks, and, after
a few trips aloft with us, learned to furl, to reef, and to "loose" a
sail. He remembered every word spoken to him, and would repeat them at
the right time; but we had rounded the Cape before he could converse,
and then in short, jerky sentences; yet he learned to speak much more
rapidly than could a child.

We called him Devlin until we understood that he could not remember
it as his name; then we addressed him as "Say." Little by little he
learned the ropes, the compass, and the use of marlinespikes and deck
gear, and, though still stupid, was in a fair way to become an able
seaman again, but for an unfortunate speech of one of our number--I
think it was Swansen--who, at our forecastle supper, jokingly called
him a dog.

Devlin immediately became a dog, snapping, snarling, barking, and
growling, with all his tutelage gone from him.

We mobbed Swansen, but it did not help the case; Devlin remained an
imbecile until we reached port, where he went to a hospital.

So, with our spirits clouded, we were glad to quit that good ship
at Sydney, and separate, each going his own way. Mine led to other
voyages until, as I have said, I quit the sea to work on shore; then,
on through my struggles for a livelihood to the time of my mental
breakdown; and I even remembered and lived the experience of the night
at the theater and my visit to the hypnotist. And then I awoke, to find
him standing over me, making passes upward and over my head.

"Well," he said, as I glanced confusedly around the room, "how do you
feel?"

"Feel?" I answered. "Why, professor, I've dreamed of my whole
life--only, it is fading away. Let me think. The ship--Swansen--the
squall--no, it is going. I cannot remember. I cannot."

"Go home," he said kindly, "and sleep all you can. Each morning will
bring back fresh recollections, and in time your memory will be
thoroughly restored."

He was right. Next morning I recalled the incidents of my boyhood and
my early seafaring experience, culminating in my signing able seaman in
the _Chariot_. And as I viewed my face in the glass, I marveled at the
change; I knew it as my face, and remembered it, but now remembered the
face of my youth, which gave no promise of the worn and wasted features
in the glass.

Yet the following morning brought back more recollections of that
voyage, and the next and the next still more, until at the end of a
week I could review my past, perhaps with a keener memory than that of
the ordinary man who has tired his brain and memory without the relief
that had come to me. I called down blessings upon the head of that
hypnotist, and in my gladness of heart thought of the poor devil in
Bellevue Hospital, and went to see him.

But I was not admitted. I was not acquainted with him, and had no
plausible excuse for wishing to see him. So I went to Sullivan, my old
shipmate, and explained the case, at the same time telling him of my
wonderful cure, and my wish to secure to him the services of the kindly
man who had served me.

"Won't let you in?" he cried. "I'll see about that. Just come along wi'
me up to Tammany Hall, an' I'll see if a fri'nd o' Jack Sullivan is to
be barred out of any public institution in this burg."

We started, and as our way led past the apartment of the professor, I
suggested that we stop and endeavor to take him along, as, if all went
well, the thing could be done in a few moments.

Luckily we found him at home, packing up for the road. His engagement
was ended, and he would leave town that evening; but, when I had
explained about the poor fellow at Bellevue, whose case was worse than
my own, his kindly brown eyes lit up with a fellow sympathy, and he
came with us.

We took a cab, and Jack and I occupied the forward seat, while the
professor sat opposite. As we rode along, I noticed that he furtively
glanced into Jack's seamy face, and occasionally, and as furtively,
into mine, while a doubtful, thoughtful expression stole over his own.
But he uttered no word during that ride, and indeed there was hardly a
chance, for Jack kept the atmosphere sulphurous with his comments on
the insolence of the doctors at Bellevue.

At Tammany Hall Jack went in, and what he said or did in there I do
not know; but he soon came out, waving a pass to the hospital, and
still swearing.

We soon reached Bellevue, and were readily admitted and led to the ward
containing the hopelessly insane. And here we were at a loss as to
which of the fifty or more patients was our man. The one nurse there
did not know the pathology of a single case in the ward; but he went to
inquire, and brought back the visiting physician whom I had met in the
car. He recognized me, heard my story, was introduced to Jack and the
professor, and said to the latter:


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward, with a third-person omniscient narrator. However, there is a bit of a tense shift near the end, when the narrator seems to switch to first person for a moment before going back to third person. This could be confusing for some readers.