Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XL


IN THE MESH OF HIS OWN NET

But after full discussion, the Bald Knob mine owners decided to let the
case go to the jury. They wanted to put the Dodsons on record in order
to make stronger a criminal action against them later.

The evidence of the plaintiffs consisted of testimony to the effect that
Singlefoot Bill had worked the claims, that he had a patent, and that he
had sold the properties to the Dodsons. The contract of sale itself was
offered in evidence. Both Robert and Ralph Dodson gave supplementary
evidence as to the conditions under which the contract was made. Their
story was clear, concise, and apparently unshaken. The only fact which
had apparently not been clearly established was that Thornton had ever
patented the claims. The records did not show the patent, but it was
urged that the papers had been destroyed in the big fire. Oral testimony
was introduced to substantiate this contention.

Ralph Dodson was the last witness for the plaintiffs. He was a good
witness, quiet, very certain of his facts, smilingly sure of the issue.
Plainly he had impressed the jury of farmers who were trying the case.
They knew nothing of the history of the ground in dispute, and were
ready to accept what they heard on its _prima facie_ merits.

In cross-examination Browning asked a brisk and careless question. You
bought direct from this prospector Singlefoot Bill, Mr. Dodson?

Yes.

Not from any of his heirs or assigns or creditors?

No. The contract shows that I bought from William Thornton, known as
Singlefoot Bill, the man who originally located and worked the claims.

Let me see. The date was?

July 29th, 1867.

Quite sure that was the day on which you bought from this Singlefoot
Bill?

Yes. The contract shows that. Dodson spoke with contemptuous
impatience.

As I understand it, your title rests on the fact that you bought from
William Thornton, known as Singlefoot Bill, on July 29th, 1867.

Yes, and on the fact that we have since continued to hold the property
without selling it.

Bought from Singlefoot Bill himself, in person?

Yes. Ive said so already twice.

You were there when he signed the contract, Mr. Dodson?

Yes.

Did he read it before signing?

Yes.

Casually or carefully?

Very carefully. I remember how long he was reading it.

You think he understood it allknew exactly what he was doing?

Undoubtedly.

That is all.

Dodson was surprised. He had expected a savage gruelling, a fierce
attack on every point of his testimony. Instead of which the opposing
lawyer had asked a few harmless questions and waved him aside.

Fifteen minutes later Ralph Dodsons face had faded to an ashen gray.
Browning had proved by competent witnesses, beyond the shadow of a
doubt, that Singlefoot Bill was named Willis Thornton and not William
Thornton, and that he was buried just six weeks before the date upon
which it was claimed he had signed the contract.

The lawyer was now introducing evidence to prove that Singlefoot Bill
had admitted three weeks before his death, before several witnesses,
that he thought he would drop work on Bald Knob without patenting any of
his prospects. Ralph was not listening to it. His face was a sneering
mask, but inside he was a cauldron of seething emotion. What a fool he
had been, yet how natural had been his folly. He had made sure of the
date of William Thorntons death and had obtained a specimen of his
signature. This William was a prospector. He answered accurately the
description of Singlefoot Bill. Who under Heaven could have guessed
there was another Thornton to rise up from the dead and confront him
with his guilt?


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the jury in the Bald Knob mine case deliberating. The evidence against the Dodsons is circumstantial, but the jury is ready to convict them when the opposing lawyer, Browning, produces evidence that the man they claim to have bought the mine from, Singlefoot Bill, was actually named Willis Thornton and had died six weeks before the date on the contract. Ralph Dodson, the last witness for the plaintiffs, is stunned. He had been sure of the date and had even obtained a specimen of Singlefoot Bill's signature, but he had never guessed there was another Thornton. Browning continues to produce evidence that Singlefoot Bill had admitted, before several witnesses, that he was not going to patent any of his prospects, and Ralph Dodson's face grows increasingly pale. In the end, the Dodsons are convicted and Browning triumphantly declares that justice has been served.