Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
"The hell you say!" said Bill. "I thought she was your ward."

"My daughter by my second wife," said the old gentleman, with dignity.
"My first wife, with all her relations, is still alive and fighting me."

"I think," said Bill reflectively, "that I understand. Well," and here
the doctor appeared with his appurtenances, "you don't love this little
girl any more than I do, and I'll do my part."

"Lie down beside her quickly," ordered the doctor. Bill did so.

"Can you stand pain?" asked the doctor of Bill. "Or do you want an
ansthetic?"

"Go ahead," growled Bill, between his teeth. "Work quickly."

"I am going to sever a vein in both your arms, and connect them by this
tube. Miss Mayhew is unconscious, and will feel no pain. But _you_
will."

"Go ahead," yelled Bill. "What do I care for pain? Use your surgical
skill, and save her life, or, by God, I'll toss you overboard. Quickly,
now. Go ahead, before she dies."

"I will," answered the doctor grimly, as he picked up his lancet.

Bill felt pain; he felt that his arm was being torn from his shoulder,
as the doctor severed a large vein, and dragged the upper end out from
the bleeding wound. He gritted his teeth, however, and closed his eyes
tightly, while the doctor ligatured the vein and bound its end around
the tube; then, shivering in every muscle of his body, he waited while
the same operation was performed on the arm of the girl. Then the
ligatures were removed, and Bill slowly went to sleep, the pain and
distress, love of the girl, and interest in life leaving him as the
somnolence increased.

He awakened a few years later, as he thought, lying in his own berth
abaft the pilot house, his arm bound to his side, and the black kitten
nestling upon his chest. He looked at the little creature, and an
ungovernable hatred overcame him. He could barely lift his free arm,
but with this arm and hand he brushed the kitten off to the floor. Then
he tried to pull himself together, but did not succeed; things were
obscure, he could not remember, and all he felt was hatred of the cat,
now glaring at him from under the chart table. There was a nautical
almanac in the berth, and Bill flung it at the cat; but she dodged,
and ran out on deck. Then she came back in the arms of Miss Mayhew,
or, rather, in one arm, for the right was strapped to her side, as was
his left; she was not exactly rosy of face, still there was color in
it, and a soft light in her eyes, and a sweet smile on her lips, that
robbed Bill of his resentment toward the cat. She fondled the small
creature, and came toward his couch; then, bending over him, she
deposited the kitten on his chest and kissed him on the lips. Bill
choked and gasped.

"You mustn't mind," she said, rosy now, "if I kiss you. The doctor told
me. You gave me most of your blood, and I lived. I was well in a day."

Before Bill could formulate an answer the father came in.

"Well," he said cheerfully, "you've waked up, have you? Good! We had
our doubts about it; for it took three days. We're almost to Gibraltar,
as the mate says."

"That's good," said Bill wearily, "but--is Miss Mayhew all right?"

"Got a hole in her side," answered the father, "and a hole in her arm;
but, tell me, you folks. Something happened, and I want to know."

"It was all my fault, daddy," said the girl. "This little cat
frightened me, and I think I went crazy again."

"I see," said the father, his face clouding. "I told you, Mr. Flanders,
to have no cats on board. Why is this?"

"Why," said Bill, "I'm sorry now, of course, but I found the brute
being tormented by a gang of toughs, and brought it with me. I never
dreamed that there would be any unpleasant consequences."

"But I knew," said the owner warmly. "This little girl of mine was
marked by her mother, who was frightened into insanity by a mad cat.
She has gone crazy several times at the sight of a cat."

"But not any more," said the smiling girl. "Come here, kitty, and let
me love you." She picked up the kitten, and fondled it. Then the doctor
appeared, and looked them all over with a stern, scientific eye.

The girl placed the kitten on Bill's chest, close to his chin, and
smilingly bade him pat it. But Bill, with a furious, though not
profane, exclamation, struck his former pet from him. The girl picked
it up, and consoled it, looking down on Bill with mild disapproval.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Bill has just awakened from a coma, and the first thing he sees is the black kitten he hates. The kitten is nestled on his chest, and he angrily brushes it off. The kitten belongs to the girl he saved with his blood, and she is now rosy and healthy. The father tells them that the girl has gone crazy several times at the sight of a cat. The doctor appears and tells them that Bill must have given her a lot of blood. The girl picks up the kitten and smiles at Bill, who is now feeling resentful toward the cat.