Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Even through the heat-screens, the radiance heated the air in the ship
scorchingly. But now the visor-screen showed that the Control cruisers
were falling back and disappearing from sight behind.

[Illustration: Blinding, eye-dazing even through the filter of the
heat-screens, the brilliance of Sol stunned them.]

"They couldn't follow us this close to the photosphere!" Harb cried
exultantly. "We've shaken them and we're almost in orbit."

"You can't orbit the Sun!" Floring pleaded. "And even if you could, the
cruisers will lay to outside the heat and range you by locator and fire
till they destroy us! Put about!"

The man Vito, choking and gasping for breath, came into the pilot room
from the engine rooms astern.

"Heat-screens won't take another dyne! If we go closer, we're done for."

"We're orbiting now," Jonny said huskily. "Wait!"

Harb Land was engaged in the most difficult operation of spacemanship,
bringing a ship into exact balanced orbit around a celestial body.

Most difficult, even when the body was a planet. Impossible, nearly,
when the body was a Titanic star!

Carlin saw the giant's face a frozen mask as he centered his dial
needles, fed force with infinite delicacy, guided, changed--and changed
again.

Harb reached and slammed open a switch. The hum of propulsion waves
died. The "Phoenix" was without driving power. And the needle of the
gravi-gauges remained constant, the ship's path around the Sun was
unvarying.

"We've orbited!" Harb Land's voice was a hoarse, exhausted sound.

Carlin wanted to shout, "By heaven, there are no spacemen in the galaxy
except Earthmen--none!"

The "Phoenix" was circling the Sun, deep in the corona and reversing
layer and close to the photosphere or light-emitting surface which was
the vague boundary of the star itself.

Their sensation was that of men suspended over a Universe of raging
flame and force. The mind shook to the impact of it. They were here
where no men, no life, had ever been intended to be. They were
violating the sanctity of a star.

"Now--the dredge," Jonny said hoarsely. "We've not power enough to
force the heat-screens like this for long. Come on, Carlin."

Carlin stumbled back with him into the stifling hold. The men around
the towering magnetic dredge were like sooty devils staring with wild
eyes.

The metal was so hot its touch made him cry out as he closed the
circuit of the generators with the ato-turbines. The rotors began their
whine, building up a magnetic field.

The whole ship suddenly shook and quivered. Harb came plunging back
into the hold.

"Those Control Cruisers are starting to salvo us by radiolocator!"

"We only need a little time," panted Jonny Land. "The cooler coils,
Carlin!"

Carlin felt like a man in a dream as he sweated with Jonny to get the
magnetic dredge started. The field was building steadily, and the great
nozzles of the beam-head had been lowered below the keel. Jonny's
brilliant eyes clung to the panel of gauges, and finally he opened the
field-switch.

"Now!"

They crowded around the view-plate in the keel, peering half-blindly
down against the glare of the raging Sun-sea below. The dredge was
projecting a powerful, concentrated magnetic field down into that ocean
of flaming gas like a sucking straw. But for moments they saw nothing.
Time that seemed endless went by. Then--

"Here she comes!" yelled Loesser.

A column of flaming vapor was shooting up from the fiery ocean below.
Compared to the gigantic mass of Sol, it was the merest filament, the
flimsiest thread of fire.

But it was rushing up and up toward the hovering "Phoenix," a finger
of fiery vaporized elements drawn irresistibly up along the beam of
magnetism to the ship.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a sense of awe and wonder at the magnitude of the task at hand. The point of view is third person omniscient.