Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Do you see the boats, Hi? she asked. Those are some of the coast
boats which bring the produce. There are many market gardens along this
great shallow bay, especially at La Boca, ten miles down. The gardeners
send their things in the boats, which are just as fast as boats can be.
They often race both ways. We can see them from our windows.

Out in the bay there was enough wind to ruffle the water. About a dozen
boats of queer rigs were rushing home under all the sail they could set.
Some were lateen-rigged with striped sails of blue and white; most were
polacca schooners with steeved bowsprits setting a sprit beneath upon a
yard. The sails of these were of a bright orange colour. All had high
curved whalers bows topped with gilt emblems. All were fast boats; even
Hi was surprised at the way they travelled. A rounded white gleam at
their sides showed their speed and the cleanness of their thrust.

Arent they like dolphins? Rosa said. Dont they seem to enjoy it?

Less than half a mile from the gate of the city they entered the gates
of the Piranhas estate, which lay to the left, between the road and the
sea. In the niches of the masonry of the gates were figures of painted
terra-cotta, representing Friendship and Affection, one on each side.
They had been labelled when new, but time had destroyed the plaster on
which the labels were painted. We cant tell tother from which now,
Rosa said. People think theyre both the Virgin, and lay little bunches
of flowers before them on their way to work.

The gates were old masterpieces of wrought iron, now frail from rust,
their palm leaves were snapping, some of their bars had worn through.
All within the gates showed the same marks of decay. It had once been an
Italian garden, but time, poverty and the sea winds had helped to bring
it to ruin. Marble busts of poets and nymphs were fallen, or overgrown
with trailers. The great red clay or terra-cotta urns had been split by
the roots of their flowers, so that they looked like fountains of
flowers falling under the living glitter of the humming birds. The
shingle of the walk, though marked with wheels and horse-hoofs, was
almost overgrown with a thick green-leaved trailer, full of minute blue
flowers. The house was a biggish, oblong, yellow building, with
decorative panels of scarlet plaster in the recesses of the masonry. The
scarlet had faded to pale red, it was scaley and mildewed; altogether,
the house looked out of fashion. There had been a device between
supporters over the door. The supporters were now nothing but legs, two
hairy, with paws, two human, with feet. The device was wholly gone. Part
of a label bore the legend:

non sufficit.

Hi wondered what it was that did not suffice.

As the carriage stopped below the perron an old negro with powdered
hair, wearing the uniform of the Piranhas, white with green splashes on
the shoulders, came down the steps to welcome them. He carried a long
ebony cane with a gold pineapple at the end. Hi helped Donna Emilia up
the steps. Outside the house, all things gave evidence of a great family
coming down in the world. Inside, it was all as it had been in the time
of its splendour, except that colours had faded.

Come into my room, Highworth, Donna Emilia said.

She led him into a pleasant room hung with portraits of her own and her
husbands families. She took her seat in a great brocaded chair that was
like a throne. Hi was only a boy, but he was impressed by her bearing.
She gave him the impression of being a work of art held together by
nothing but will, and a sense of style.

Hi closed the door at her bidding. Rosa was gone.

It is thirty years, Highworth, she said, since your father in this
room brought news to my husband and myself that our fortunes were
secured in the days of the copper crisis. My husband promised then that
this house should be a home to any of your race. There to your right you
will see a drawing of your father as he was then. It is a pleasure to me
to see you stand where your father stood.

She rang a little bell which stood on a table beside her; the negro with
the ebony cane appeared. This is my old retainer, Pablo, she said,
faithful as one of the old age. Pablo, she said, this is Mr.
Highworth, whose father you will remember. In all ways and at all times
you are to consider him as one of this household.

After Pablo had gone she turned again to Hi.

This is talking beneath the surface, she said, which the English do
not do. Now tell me. What are your plans for your life in this country?
Your father says that you have letters and that we are not to help you
till we see that you have helped yourself.

I have only just landed, Hi said. I have letters to Mr. Weycock and
Mr. Winter.

To Mr. Mordred Weycock? she asked.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Rosa: Hi's companion, likely his girlfriend. She is described as pretty and having a dark complexion.
-Hi: The protagonist of the scene. He is described as being young.
-Donna Emilia: The owner of the estate. She is an older woman who is described as being regal.
-Pablo: The old retainer of the estate. He is described as being faithful.