What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"But we could have our radio along," Jessie said quietly. "I could
disconnect this one"--pointing to her receiving set by the window--"and
we might carry it along. It is easy enough to string the antenna."

"O-oh!" groaned her chum. "She calls it easy! And I pretty nearly
strained my back in two distinct places helping fix those wires after
Mark Stratford's old aeroplane tore them down."

"Well, you want some excitement, you say," said Jessie composedly. She
went to the radio instrument, sat down before it, adjusted a set of the
earphones, and opened the switch. "I wonder what is going on at this
time," she murmured.

Amy suddenly cocked her head to listen, although it could not be that
she heard what came through the ether.

"Listen!" she cried.

"What under the sun is that?" demanded the clergyman's daughter, in
amazement.

Jessie murmured at the radio receiver:

"Don't make so much noise, girls. I can't hear myself think, let alone
what might come over the air-waves."

"Hear that!" shrieked Amy, jumping up. "That is no radio message,
believe me! It comes from no broadcasting station. Listen, girls!"

She raised the screen at a window and leaned out. Jessie, removing the
tabs from her ears, likewise gained some understanding of what was
going on outside. A shrill voice was shrieking:

"Miss Jessie! Miss Jessie! I got the most wonderful thing to tell you.
Oh, Miss Jessie!"

"For pity's sake!" murmured Jessie.

"Isn't that little Hen from Dogtown?" asked Nell Stanley.

"That is exactly who it is," agreed Amy, starting for the door. "Little
Hen is one live wire. 'O-Be-Joyful' Henrietta is never lukewarm. There
is always something doing with that child."

"Do you suppose she can be in trouble?" asked Jessie, worriedly.

"If she is, I guarantee it will be something funny," replied Amy,
whisking out of the room.

"Miss Jessie! Miss Jessie! I want to tell you!" repeated the shrill
voice from the front of the Norwood house.

"Come on, Jessie," said Nell, dropping her work and starting, too. "The
child evidently wants you."

The others followed Amy Drew down to the porch. The Norwood house where
Jessie, an only child, lived with her mother and her father, a lawyer
who had his office in New York, was a large dwelling even for Roselawn,
which was a district of fine houses forming a part of the town of New
Melford. The house was set in the middle of large grounds. Roses were
everywhere--beds and beds of them. At one side was the boathouse and
landing at the head of Lake Mononset. At the foot of the front lawn was
Bonwit Boulevard, across which stood the house where Amy Drew lived
with her father, Wilbur Drew, also a New York lawyer, and her mother
and her brother Darrington.

But it was that which stood directly before the gateway of the Norwood
place which attracted the gaze of the three girls. A little old basket
phaeton, drawn by a fat and sleepy looking brown-and-white pony, and
driven by a grinning boy in overalls and with bare feet, made an object
quite odd enough to stare at. The little girl sitting so very straight
in the phaeton, and holding a green parasol over her head, was bound to
attract the amused attention of any on-looker.

"Oh, look at little Hen!" gasped Amy, who was ahead.

"And Montmorency Shannon," agreed Jessie. "Don't laugh, girls! You'll
hurt their feelings."

"Then I'll have to shut my eyes," declared Amy. "That parasol! And
those freckles! They look green under it. Dear me, Nell, did you ever
see such funny children in your life as those Dogtown kids?"

Jessie ran down the steps and the path to the street. When the freckled
child saw her coming she stood up and waved the parasol at the Roselawn
girl.

Henrietta Haney was a child in whom the two Roselawn girls had become
much interested while she had lived in the Dogtown district of New
Melford with Mrs. Foley and her family. Montmorency Shannon was a
red-haired urchin from the same poor quarters, and he and Henrietta
were the best of friends.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the characters of Henrietta and Montmorency and to establish their friendship. The author also establishes the setting of the story and introduces the conflict (the poverty of Dogtown versus the wealth of Roselawn).