Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
VII.


The announcement that Colonel Richardson was married entirely changed
the aspect in which his attention to Lilian had appeared. Annie
understood now that she herself had been used to cover a friendship
which the girls relatives disapproved of, and the young wifes heart
beat fast with excitement and dread of the scene she had to go through
when she next heard Lilians footstep outside her sitting-room door.
She was doubtful how to open the subject; but her companion soon paved
the way by asking if the colonel had brought a book from Mudies.

He called; but I had told Lydia to say I was not at home.

Lilians face instantly wore its haughtiest expression.

You sent such a message as that to Colonel Richardson?

Yes.

Why? Her beautiful gray eyes were fixed in indignant astonishment on
her companions face.

I have decided that I cannot receive his visits any longer.

She was trembling. Lilian mistook this for a sign of fear.

Do you not consider my introduction a sufficient assurance that a
gentleman is worthy of the honor of your acquaintance?

Not in this case, said Annie, looking at her steadily.

Explain what you mean.

Certainly. I have the strongest reason for believing that you
introduced Colonel Richardson to me and led me to think he was
unmarried, because your friends, who knew more about him than I,
disapproved of the acquaintance for you.

Lilian rose quickly from her seat, and seemed to be attempting to quell
the smaller woman by her dignified appearance.

You have insulted me grossly--shamefully! I suppose I have deserved it
for condescending so far to you as I have done.

You forget, Annie said, simply, without any show of either timidity
or arrogance. Two months ago you might have talked to me of
condescension, for I was then only Miss Lane, the governess. Now I am
Mrs. Harold Braithwaite, your brothers wife, your equal, and your
superior--for the present--as a married woman.

My equal--my superior!

Yes; that is not a matter of argument, but of fact. You cannot suppose
for a moment that I wish to presume upon it. You made the first
advances toward friendship with me, when I was rather lonely here and
grateful for your society and that of the gentleman you introduced to
me. Now I know your friendship was offered only that I might innocently
help you to deceive your friends, and I am quite as ready to draw back
as you can be; and her brown eyes met the brilliant gray ones steadily.

Lilian was defeated, though she would not own it.

You have caught up the grand manner very quickly, said she,
patronizingly.

Annie smiled; such a sneer could not hurt her. Lilian left the room
majestically; and it was only then that the features of her hostess
assumed an anxious look. Would this headstrong girl give up her
dangerous acquaintance simply because another difficulty had been put
in the way of it? It was not likely. She had known quite well that
Lilian, looking upon her only as a useful acquaintance, not as an ally,
would not listen to any entreaties or remonstrances from her; therefore
she had not tried any; but she almost reproached herself now for not
having made the attempt.

She did not say anything to her husband about this interview, as that
would have entailed the confession that she had refused to see his
friend, which would have drawn down a useless fury of reproaches upon
her own head.

She felt rather awkward therefore when Harry, after complaining and
wondering that the colonel did not call, brought him home in triumph
to dinner one evening, about a week after the scene with Lilian. He
was sharp-sighted enough to notice a slight constraint in his wifes
greeting of their guest, a slight diffidence in that of the colonel.
While Harry dressed for dinner, the latter came nearer to Annie and
said, in a low voice:

I am in a difficult position, Mrs. Braithwaite. I have had the
misfortune to offend you in some way; but, when your husband invited me
here this evening, and I hinted that I was afraid you would not care to
receive me, he would not listen to my objections, and insisted upon my
coming.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Annie Braithwaite confronts her friend Lilian about introducing her to Colonel Richardson, who is married. Lilian is indignant and denies any wrongdoing, but Annie is not convinced. When Colonel Richardson is later invited to dinner at the Braithwaites', Annie is uncomfortable but Lilian is cordial.