Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The massacre spread rapidly around the circumference of the city and the
Kalkars drove the people from the upper terraces downward between the
raging fires which were increasing until the mouth of the great crater
was filled with roaring flames and smoke. In the occasional gaps we
could catch glimpses of the holocaust beneath us.

A sudden current of air rising from the crater lifted the smoke pall
high for a moment, revealing the entire circumference of the crater, the
edge of which was crowded with Laytheans. And then I saw a warrior from
the opposite side leap upon the surrounding wall that bordered the lower
terrace at the edge of the yawning crater. He turned and called aloud
some message to his fellows, and then wheeling, threw his arms above his
head and leaped outward into the yawning, bottomless abyss. Instantly
the others seemed to be inoculated with the infection of his mad act. A
dozen men leaped to the wall and dove head foremost into the crater. The
thing spread slowly at first, and then with the rapidity of a prairie
fire, it ran around the entire circle of the city. Women hurled their
children in and then leaped after them. The multitude fought one with
another for a place upon the wall from which they might cast themselves
to death. It was a terriblean awe-inspiring sight.

Nah-ee-lah covered her eyes with her hands. My poor people! she cried.
My poor people! And far below her, by the thousands now, they were
hurling themselves into eternity, while above them the screaming Kalkars
hurled hand grenades among them and drove the remaining inhabitants of
Laythe, terrace by terrace, down toward the craters rim.

Nah-ee-lah turned away. Come, Julian, she said, I cannot look, I
cannot look. And together we walked across the terrace to the outer
side of the city.

Almost directly beneath us upon the next terrace was a palace gate and
as we reached a point where we could see it, I was horrified to see that
the Kalkars had made their way up the outer terraces to the very palace
walls. The Jemadars guard was standing there ready to defend the palace
against the invaders. The great stone gates would have held indefinitely
against spears and swords, but even the guardsmen must have guessed that
their doom was already sealed and that these gates, that had stood for
ages, an ample protection to the Jemadars of Laythe, were about to fall,
as the Kalkars halted fifty yards away, and from their ranks a single
individual stepped forth a few paces.

As my eyes alighted upon him I seized Nah-ee-lahs arm. Orthis! I
cried. It is Orthis. At the same instant the mans eyes rose above the
gates and fell upon us. A nasty leer curled his lips as he recognized
us.

I come to claim my bride, he cried, in a voice that reached us easily,
and to balance my account with you, at last, and he pointed a finger
at me.

In his right hand he held a large, cylindrical object, and as he ceased
speaking he hurled it at the gates precisely as a baseball pitcher
pitches a swift ball.

The missile struck squarely at the bottom of the gates. There was a
terrific explosion, and the great stone portals crumbled, shattered into
a thousand fragments. The last defense of the Empress of Laythe had
fallen, and with it there went down in bloody death at least half the
remaining members of her loyal guard.

Instantly the Kalkars rushed forward, hurling hand grenades among the
survivors of the guard.

Nah-ee-lah turned toward me and put her arms about my neck.

Kiss me once more, Julian, she said, and then the dagger.

Never, never, Nah-ee-lah! I cried. I cannot do it.

But I can! she exclaimed, and drew her own from its sheath at her hip.

I seized her wrist. Not that, Nah-ee-lah! I cried. There must be some
other way. And then there came to me a mad inspiration. The wings! I
cried. Where are they kept? The last of your people have been
destroyed. Duty no longer holds you here. Let us escape, even if it is
only to frustrate Orthis plans and deny him the satisfaction of
witnessing our death.

But, where can we go? she asked.

We may at least choose our own manner of death, I replied, far from
Laythe and far from the eyes of an enemy who would gloat over our
undoing.

You are right, Julian. We still have a little time, for I doubt if
Orthis or his Kalkars can quickly find the stairway leading to this
terrace. And then she led me quickly to one of the many towers that
rise above the palace. Entering it, we ascended a spiral staircase to a
large chamber at the summit of the tower. Here were kept the imperial
wings. I fastened Nah-ee-lahs to her and she helped me with mine, and
then from the pinnacle of the tower we arose above the burning city of
Laythe and flew rapidly toward the distant lowlands and the sea. It was
in my mind to search out, if possible, the location of _The Barsoom_,
for I still entertained the mad hope that my companions yet livedif I
did, why not they?


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very dramatic. The point of view is from Julian, who is looking down at the city of Laythe from a distance. The tone is one of horror and despair, as Julian witnesses the massacre of the Laytheans.