Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
White Sands Spaceport was a broad flatland, ringed by thousands of
people. In the middle stood a three-stage rocket, waiting; its distance
making it look like a small model. In the foreground was a small
reviewing stand, and on the stand stood Dusty Britton, resplendent in
his Space Patrol uniform. He was extending a hand towards a youngster
about twelve, dressed in a miniature Space Patrol uniform, complete
with a miniature edition of the famous "Dusty Britton" blaster at his
hip.

The lad saluted Dusty; Dusty saluted back.

Then from his shirt pocket Dusty took a small box and an engraved piece
of paper.

"Junior Spaceman Harold Dawson, it is my pleasure to award you this
Medal of Spaceman's Honor.

"I am informed that upon July Seventeen, at Thirteen Hundred Hours
local time, you, Harold Dawson, Spaceman (Jg) full aware of the dangers
that threatened, did without thought of your personal safety, wade deep
into the shifting sands of Mudlark Lake and from that deadly quicksand
return your smaller sister to safety. For valor and for gallantry, I
present you with the Order of The Golden Heart!"

With a flourish, Dusty pinned the decoration on the proud youngster's
chest. The medal glittered there, a small heart of gold surrounded by
rings like those of Saturn, carved in flat relief.

Then with another exchange of salutes, Dusty Britton went down the
steps and into a waiting spaceport jeep and while the crowd cheered
wildly, Dusty was driven across the sands to the spacecraft.

With tolerant parents permitting their young to watch this live,
in-person show no matter what time it was across the earth, it is not
hard to believe that during these many minutes there were more people
thinking about Dusty Britton than there had ever been people thinking
about any other person at any one time in the course of history.

And so Scyth Radnor, tinkering with his menslator on Mercury, trying
to tune it to some response that would deliver definitive thought,
caught much more than he anticipated. In fact, it nearly overloaded the
device.

"Any doubt?" he asked with a twisted smile.

"Nope," from Bren.

"I pass," added Chat.

Scyth said, "So instead of being an uninhabited planet, we have a
rather high culture, complete with space travel. This Dusty Britton
must be quite a hero. But how in the name of the Great Space can
they have space travel without machinus fields or some knowledge of
phanoband radiation?"

"Maybe their space travel is--er--"

"Now look, you're not suggesting that people with a Space Patrol are
riding ships with tailburners? Rockets? What a horrible thought."

Bren shook his head. "Our forefathers lived through it."

"Not many of them," grunted Scyth.

Chat objected. "Read that history you dislike so much. You'll find that
our ancestors went through hundreds of years wallowing across space to
the planets in reaction-type spacecraft. Chemico-atomic rockets, if you
please."

"Let's stop the argument and get along with the main problem," said
Bren. "What are we going to do about them?"

"Well, we can't set up a beacon with them here. So we'll just have to
take the proper measures."

"That'll be quite a project. Whole colonies and--"

"That they haven't got yet. They're at the outpost stage; the
scientific expedition stage. Their moon has less than a hundred people
on it, their Mars has been visited only three times, and their Venus
only once previously. This project that Dusty Britton is going on
is the second Venus rocket, the first one being sent as an orbital,
round-trip manned-job for observational purposes. So we can set up our
barytrine field without causing a lot of distress, and then we can go
on preparing our space beacon."

Bren nodded and Chat said, "You're the handiest man with menslators and
the like, Scyth. You're also the guy that can think fast on his feet.
We elect you to go to the Earth and contact this Dusty Britton and
explain to him so that he can tell his people what is going on."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Scyth Radnor, Bren, and Chat are on Mercury discussing their options. They have determined that they cannot set up a beacon with people on Earth, so they decide that Scyth will go to Earth and contact Dusty Britton to explain the situation. 
Scyth arrives on Earth and finds Dusty Britton at the White Sands Spaceport. He explains the situation to Dusty, who agrees to help. Dusty makes a public announcement to the people of Earth, telling them about the beacon and how to prepare for it. 
Scyth, Bren, and Chat continue to prepare the beacon while people on Earth begin to build colonies and prepare for the arrival of the beacon.