Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
A shark, by George, Hi said.

The boatman laughed at his scare and the master signed to him not to
lean over the side. Soon after this Hi noticed that La Boca did not seem
to be getting any nearer. The wind, before falling, had drawn ahead, so
that they had to make a short board out to sea.

This is a bore, he thought. I may not be at La Boca till mid-day, if
this goes on. But Ill do it yet.

The wind, which had drawn ahead, now chopped round a few points to the
west and failed altogether.

Whats the matter? Hi asked.

Wait for de breeze, the master said.

Shall we have to wait long?

Sometimes half hour, sometimes hour.

Would it be possible to row in to the shore? Hi asked.

Not got oars, the boatman said. Only one oar and a boat hook.

There was nothing for it but to wait while the sun climbed up out of the
sea and became hotter. Hi tried to judge the distance from La Boca. It
seemed so near across that fore-shortened glitter of sea. Three miles,
possibly four miles, he thought. The sea and the boat seemed to settle
down to sleep.

We shall be hours at it like this, Hi thought. And they were.

What was hardest to bear came an hour later, as they lay becalmed. Hi
saw a boat further inshore creeping down to La Boca under sweeps.
Something in her helmsmans figure seemed familiar to Hi, who was
watching her with envy.

Is that Giordano? he asked.

Giordano, si, they answered.

She was helped by more than the sweeps. She was a better boat in light
airs and, being much further inshore, she missed the northward current
then moving across the outward bay.

Why, we are further from La Boca than we were before, he thought. We
are drifting back. She will be in hours before us and I might have been
in her, if I had had a little patience. I was an ass, he thought. If I
had only stuck to Giordano, I might have been almost there now.

There was no remedy but patience, which is no remedy but a substitute.
Hi watched Giordanos boat edge on and on. After what seemed to be hours
he noticed that the men in Giordanos boat laid in their sweeps and
tended sails. Chigo, who had been watching for something of the sort,
laid aside his fender making.

Here is the breeze, he said.

The breeze came down to them with a darkening of the water. Very gently
the boat began to steal southward again. At a little after ten oclock
they began to draw in to the settlement of fishermen and market
gardeners at the mouth of the Miamia river. It was an array of little
lime-washed houses, roofed with red tiles. It had a mission church of
three bells. At the mouth of the river there was a harbour made by
baulks of green-heart timber, which had been steeped in a red enamel as
a defence against the worm. Hi had been intent upon his thoughts,
planning his ride. Looking up, he saw that Giordanos boat had not
entered the harbour, but had stood on down the coast towards the south.
Looking up at the dock in front of him, he saw some Pituba soldiers
watching the approach of the boat. Among them was a white man, who
seemed to be an officer.

Just as I thought, Hi said to himself. That man on the pier in the
city was a detective. Now here I am being shadowed and am going to be
questioned.

He looked at this officer. He didnt like his looks at all. He looked
too snappish and ill-tempered.

A bite from that lipless mouth would be worse than its bark, he
thought, though the bark has a curse in it.

This man called out something to the master of the boat, who stood up
and answered with a question, which Hi thought civilly put. It brought
down a storm of oaths from the officer, who repeated his original remark
in the tone of an order. Very politely the master again objected,
pointing to Hi.

What is it? Hi whispered to Chigo.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

A boat carrying Hi and the master is becalmed and drifting back towards La Boca. Hi sees another boat, manned by Giordano, creeping down to La Boca under sweeps and becomes envious. The breeze finally picks up and they are able to continue on their way. However, they are now further from La Boca than when they started. Hi watches as Giordano's boat enters the harbour. Hi is met by Pituba soldiers, one of whom is a white detective. The detective begins questioning him.