Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
And Jerry got out of the incredible vehicle and stood blinking
embarrassedly in the light from the outer-lock glare lamps.

Borden snapped, "Who's with you?"

"Why, nobody," said Jerry. "I tried to tell you by talkie, but it
wouldn't work. I'm afraid Sattell did something to it before I left.
It's dead."

"What's that thing?" demanded Borden. "That--that wagon?"

"It's a ground car, sir," Jerry said uncomfortably. "There are thirty
or forty of them in a sort of valley about ten miles away. This
one was half-buried in mud, and the others are the same or worse.
The--er--creatures--took me there and dug this out for me. They
apparently wanted us to have it."

"And it runs!" said Borden. There was again no sense to anything. A
ground car buried in mud should not run when excavated.

"Yes, sir," said Jerry. "They dug it out for me, and I got in it and
found the skeletons and the weapons."

Ellen said, "Skeletons?"

Borden said, "Weapons!"

"Yes, sir. I tried to ask you for advice over the talkie, and like I
said, it wouldn't work, so I fiddled around a bit and the car showed
signs of life, and I found out how to run it. So I brought it back. The
weapons work too, sir. You point them at something and push a knob and
they--well, they're pretty deadly."

Borden said flatly, "Sattell's ducked out. With the log and star maps
and food. One of the creatures just came in wounded. I thought Sattell
had planned to ambush you and get your blaster. If he did trail you--"

Jerry blinked, "I didn't see a sign of him. Just a moment, sir."

He turned to his furry companions. Flushing a little, he pulled
something out of his pocket and hung it onto his chin. It was a
sock--one of his socks--partly filled with clay.

Borden was still unable to find any two things happening on this planet
which added together to make sense. The sight of Jerry fastening a
clay-filled sock to his chin seemed slightly more insane than anything
else that had happened.

"I've found out how they talk, sir," Jerry said shyly. "It's a sort
of sign language with their hands and trunk, and they make noises for
inflections and tenses, sir. And emotional overtones. I'm not too good
yet, but--"

The scene before the lock door was unique. The clay-caked, thirty-foot
vehicle looked more like a land yacht than a ground car. It was made of
a golden metal. Two dozen or more of the furry bipeds were regarding
Jerry as he made gestures and every so often stopped to adjust the
position of his artificial trunk. When he made sounds at them, their
fur flattened. When he adjusted his sock trunk, although it far
from resembled their own, they seemed entranced. When he finished,
the creature with the bandaged arm made elaborate gesticulations
accompanied by chirping sounds. Even Borden, now that he had the key,
gathered a dim idea of what the biped was trying to say.

"He says, sir," reported Jerry, sweating, "that a stick came through
the air and stuck in his arm. He pulled it out and ran away. He kept on
running. Then he saw this ship, ran to it, and you bandaged his arm for
him."

Borden snapped, "An arrow! Sattell's made a bow and arrow. He sabotaged
your talkie so you couldn't be warned about him, and he probably hoped
to trail you and kill you with an arrow, so he could take your blaster
and come back and kill us! Maybe he was just practicing when he hit
this poor creature. Anyhow, he seems to be trying everything all at
once, to destroy us." He added sharply, "But weapons! Jerry, from what
you say there'll be more weapons in those other wagons! If he finds
them, and he probably will, since he was trailing you--"

Jerry said, "I worried about that, sir. So I got the creatures to dig
down to the doors of all the wagons in sight. I thought we'd better
have the weapons safe before--er--Sattell tried to help us find out
about the vehicles. I've got all the weapons right here. But there
weren't weapons in all the wagons. In most of them there were just
skeletons."

Borden was again reminded of the great number of things which did not
fit together into any coherent picture. He said impatiently:

"Then Sattell won't get the weapons. But what's this you keep on saying
about skeletons? Did you bring any of them?"


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Jerry has returned from exploring the planet with a ground car and some weapons. He has also learned how to communicate with the furry bipeds who live there. Borden is worried that Sattell will find the weapons and use them to kill them all. Jerry explains that most of the wagons they found only had skeletons in them.