What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The open postern exposed a great steel blue vault in the middle of which
mysterious Cassiopeia seemed to shiver. I went out, crossing the
moon-bathed lawns, hiding in the shadows of the yews. A light shone in
the centre wing of the palace. The Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus must be
a late worker! All was dark in the left wing, but when I reached the end
of the building and pressed myself against the wall I knew that here,
too, there were some who kept late hours.

Spring was not yet with us, but one felt that the song of the
nightingale would soon be heard. Bright and spearlike, a ray of light
spanned the gravel path, emanating from another window dark with heavy
hangings and curtains.

The nightingale was not yet singing in the French park, embedded in the
heart of that Germany whither Fate had led me. But behind that window a
poignant long-drawn wail, interrupted at intervals by maddening silences
that made my nerves quiver with apprehension, came slowly and softly
from the silent palace straight to my heart. For Frulein von
Graffenfried was playing Schumann's most plaintive berceuses to her
mistress on her violin.


[Footnote 2: _Secret History of the Duchess of Hanover_, published in
London in 1732, without the author's name but attributed to Baron von
Bielefeld, _charg d'affaires_ of the Court of Prussia at Hanover. For
this and later references I have amplified Vignerte's particulars with
the aid of Blaze de Bury's articles, which appeared first in the _Revue
des Deux Mondes_ and were collected into one volume, the "_Episode de
l'Histoire du Hanovre, Les Knigsmark_," in 1855.]

[Footnote 3: Blaze de Bury: "_Episode de l'Histoire du Hanovre_." Notes
and evidence, p. 378.]

[Footnote 4: A duplicate in manuscript of this confession, entitled
"_Funeral Oration of Countess C. E. von Platen_," may be seen in the
archives of Vienna.]




V


_PETERMANN'S MITTHEILUNGEN_ is the most exhaustive. And also it must be
confessed the best, geographical work in the world. Our _Annales de
Gographie_ is only a feeble reflection of it. The Russians have an
excellent geographer, Wokow. We have Vidal de la Blache, whose preface
to Lavisse's _Histoire de France_ is a masterpiece. But these are only
fragments and do not cover the whole ground. The astonishing feature of
_Petermann's Mittheilungen_ is its universality. My tutors at the
Sorbonne--I won't mention names as it would hardly be kind to them at
the present moment--have told me hundreds of times that no serious
geographical work could be attempted without the assistance of this
powerful machine.

I will not exaggerate either the scope or value of the lessons I gave my
pupil by having you imagine that I never prepared _one_ without
consulting the _Mittheilungen_. But I can assure you that whenever it
was necessary to emphasize some particular point I never failed to
fortify myself by reference to the great work.

Accordingly I had recourse to it when occasion arose to instruct Duke
Joachim on a question which was indeed a topic of the hour--the question
of the Cameroons and the recent German acquisitions in the Congo. It was
just two years since the Cambon-Kiderlen-Wchter conversations had
resulted in an agreement which gave Germany the famous "Duck's bill" and
Togoland. It, therefore, seemed to me a natural proceeding to dwell at
some length on the region which had been the cause of the Kaiser's
famous bang on the diplomatic table.

I shall never forget that day--Monday, March 2nd--nearly eight months
ago now.

I first ran through the Table of Contents of the _Mittheilungen_ in
order to look up the references and authorship of the six articles on
the Cameroons and the Congo. The second I came across was the work of
Professor Heidschtz, of Berlin University, describing the means of
access (natural and artificial) to this territory.

I carried the appropriate volume to the library table and began to make
some notes. As I was opening the book at the page of the article I
wanted, a piece of paper fell out. It was a sheet, folded in four and
already yellow with age, and the writing on it was large, thick and
free. It was German in Latin characters. No signature. Even without that
writing to help me I had immediately guessed what was its subject and
who had written it.

It contained the complete plan of a journey in one of the remotest parts
of the Congo, along the famous, or, rather, notorious, river Sangha. The
routes were carefully drawn up, with the assistance of the information
given in Professor Heidschtz's article, which, as I expected, was the
very last word on these regions. All practicable tracks, fords, and
resources available to the explorer of the country--from the moment he
left Libreville to the time of his return there--were noted. Each halt
was marked: Ouesso, two days--French post, water, porters: Manna, one
day--porters: Glgl, on the N'Sagha, canoes, etc.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The author is introducing the character of Duke Joachim and establishing his credentials as a knowledgeable and well-traveled man. He also establishes the character of the Duke as a man who is interested in current affairs and willing to learn.