Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
II.

IN COLLISION.

About the time when the seamen found the stowaways hiding in the
hold, Arthur Gordon sat in the Captain's room, and he afterwards told
Charley what happened.  He was chatting with the Purser when someone
rapped at the door, and a sailor entering explained how he came
across two boys, covered with damp newspapers, crouching in a corner
among the cargo of railway iron.

"What do you mean by hiding in my ship?" asked the Captain sternly as
they were led in.  "Tell me your names, where you live, and just what
brought you here.  Don't you know I could send you to prison for
trying to steal a passage without paying your fare?

"I'm Tom," said the eldest, trying to hide the thin blue knees that
peeped through his ragged clothes, with a wondering look at the
luxurious room, "and this is Jim.  Ain't got no other names.  We
lives with Jim's mother in a cellar.  She sewed sacks, an' was very
kind to us.  Gives us what she had, an' it wasn't very much.  Then
she dies, and the workhouse buries her--what was it, Jim?"

"'Flammation, the doctor said, but I think it was starvin'.  There
was a month when she had nothink hardly to eat," answered Jim,
gulping down something in his throat; and the Captain added more
gently, "Go on, my lad, what did you do then?"

"Then," said Tom boldly, "we lives where we could, under arches an'
sheds, dodgin' the police--Jim he sells papers, I sells
matches--until we saw them plackgards on the emigration offices.
'Free homes in Canady.  Free land.  Work and plenty for everyone,'
all printed in big red letters, an' we says, 'There's room for us two
somewhere in that good country.'  So we clubs our tradin' money--four
shillin' it was--spends sixpence on purvisions, an' hides among the
cargo, where the rats nearly eat us.  We'll give you the rest for our
passage, sir, an' when we gets rich some day we'll pay you some more.
We're not cheats, but honest traders, sir."

The Purser solemnly stretched out his hand for the bundle of coppers
in a dirty rag.  Arthur Gordon, who was too kindly a gentleman to
hurt anybody's feelings, tried not to smile when the ragged urchin
called himself a trader, and the Captain, who asked a few more
questions, pressed a bell button as he said, "H'm; it was very wrong
of you.  Still, we're not going to hang you.  Steward, take these
young rascals forward, and feed them in the steerage--they look as if
they wanted it.  Hunt out some of my old things, and ask the
stewardess to double them until they fit.  Those clothes are a
disgrace to humanity.  Now, my lads, you'll have to work for your
passage, and I've got my eye on you.  By the way, steward, don't
forget to wash them, whatever you do!"

Tom touched his grimy forehead, Jim stared blankly, and the Captain,
who had boys of his own, said as they went out, "Poor little
beggars!--it's a hard world for such as them.  I like that eldest
lad; there's spirit in him.  What are you going to do with that
money, Purser?"

The Purser laughed as he answered, "Make the saloon passengers add to
it, and give it to the lads when they land.  I'll tell them the story
at dinner to-day"; while Arthur Gordon said, "I'm only a poor man,
but will you put this in for me?"  When he told his brother he also
said, "So you see, Charley, there are folks very much worse off than
you," and Charley agreed with him.

For six days the steamer sped westwards across a great circle of
blue, and Charley thought he would never grow tired of the measured
dip of the long deck, the wash of broken waves, and all the new
wonders of the sea; while little Reggie would sit wrapped up for
hours with an unread book upon his knee, and say at times, "I never
dreamt of anything like this.  It's just glorious."

Then she ran into the bank fog which lies heavy and thick on the
waters where, near Newfoundland, the ocean grows shallow and the
great cod feed on the sands below.  The sun went out, and there was
grey dimness all day, while the oily sea heaved in slow green levels,
and a ringing of bells came out of the vapour as the ship crept at
half speed through the fishing fleet.  The anxious Captain never left
his bridge, two men kept lookout above the bows, and now and then,
with a roar of her whistle, a steamer they could not see went by,
while sometimes the frightened emigrants shouted, as a great iron
hull rushed past half visible through the thick white curtain.  A fog
is perhaps the worst of all dangers at sea, and there is generally
fog off Newfoundland, where too many poor fishermen lose their lives
through collision annually.  One dismal afternoon was fading into
night, when Charley, leaning over the rails, watched the mist slide
past.  Arthur stood near talking to Miss Armadale, a young lady who
lived in the part of Canada they were going to, and the two stowaways
sat under a lifeboat close by.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The scene opens with Arthur Gordon chatting with the Purser in the Captain's room. They are interrupted by a sailor who has found two stowaways, Tom and Jim, hiding in the hold. The Captain sternly questions the boys and they explain that they are orphans who have been living on the streets. They decided to stow away on the ship to go to Canada in search of a better life. The Captain is moved by their story and decides not to punish them. He gives them a meal and some old clothes. For the rest of the voyage, the boys work to earn their passage. At the end of the voyage, the passengers pool their money to give to the boys as a reward for their hard work.