What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The roar of the city confused him as he waited. It was possible that he
had but reflected his own thoughts when he heard the warning. He
dismissed the matter and started to turn toward the river. His chin had
described half a circle when there flashed across his vision the true
warning of coming danger. It had taken him many years of training to act
as he did. He ducked, stepped aside and sprang out and away from the
stone rail.

A hurtling form, bunched and aggressive, crashed past him and rebounded
from the stone. A bitter oath cracked the night. A man straightened and
jabbed with a long dagger. Fay backed and held his hand in a warding
position. It was Dutch Gus who faced him. The German crook had missed
his prey by the scant margin of an eye flash.

Fay acted with the lightning dart of a professional wrestler. He knew
the mettle of the man he faced. Dutch Gus was over-burly. He lacked the
fine points of the thoroughbred. He held the knife like a bayonetbefore
him, with no chance to recover if he missed the stroke.

The jab missed by narrow inches. The crook stumbled from the force of
his wasted blow. Fay twisted his head, stooped down, grasped the German
about the hips, and flipped him over his shoulder. Dutch Gus crashed
against the stone rail and hung there.

Fay reached and swiftly opened his little black bag. From this he drew
the revolver and held it against the German crooks head. He cocked the
trigger. He waited. He thrust the man further outward. A cowards cry
sounded as Fay pressed Dutch Gus over the rail and down toward the murky
flood of the Thames.

A splash was followed by silence. The ripples widened and merged with
the pall that hung over the river. Out of this murk there rose an arm,
and then the blond head of Dutch Gus. He treaded water and then sank.

Curse you! said Fay, clasping the weapon and waiting for a sight.
Curse you, Dutch Gus! I wonder if thats your end?

Fay turned, backed against the rail, and searched the gloom on the
Surrey side. He waited grimly for other evidences of the ambush. He saw
none, although it was hardly possible that the German had acted alone.

It came to him, as he uncocked the automatic, that in some unknown
manner the German had gotten wind of the project to Holland. It flashed
through his brain that, after all, there was a reasonable answer to the
attempt on his life. Dutch Gus had followed Saidee Isaacs. It was no
coincidence then, that she had called from the tonneau of the black car
and her trailers had discovered his presence. The thing worked out. He
pocketed the automatic, picked up his bag, glanced at the river, then
started toward London Bridge Station. It was seven oclock.

As he moved swiftly, his eyes searched the throng across the pavement.
He wondered if a shadow would be there. He was dealing with not only the
Yard, which was too solicitous for his welfare, but also with a
determined clique that had already attempted to obtain the key to the
cipher. Dutch Gus had searched for Saidee Isaacs and had found her house
in Richmond Hill. The German crook, or one of his gang, had held the
traileven to London Bridge Station. Fay felt gripped in the skeins of
an enterprise which might have almost any conclusion.

He was not surprised to see the tail-light and then the polished tonneau
of the little, black motor where it stood before the station. He crossed
the street and stared at the driver. He went on and into the train shed.

A youthful-appearing figure in a long tan coat and green hat passed him,
stooped, fingered the top button of a fawn-colored spat and said
tersely:

Carry high, Chester. Theres your man over by the booking office. Look
out for Dutch Gus and remember your promise.

Fay set down his black bag, grasped the lapels of his tweed coat and
coughed to hide his astonishment.

The figure in the tan coat was Saidee Isaacs. She finished with the
spat, straightened, twinkled over the floor and darted out toward the
motor car.

MacKeenon worked through the waiting passengers and touched Fay on the
arm.

This way, mon, he said. Ye are punctual.

Fay was still staring at the doorway through which Saidee Isaacs had
vanished. He turned and picked up the bag. He glanced at the inspectors
long face. Upon it was written a sly satisfaction that one sees on old
dogs that have cornered their quarry.

The siller greyhound? said MacKeenon dryly as Fay followed him out to
the waiting boat train.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the character of Fay and to establish the conflict between him and Dutch Gus. The author also establishes the setting and establishes the stakes of the story.