Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Archie remembered he was Etheldene's father, and shook it.

"Well, youngster, how are you?  Bobbish, eh?  Ah, I see Ethie has got
in tow with a new chum.  Your friend?  Is he now?  Well, that's the
sort of man I like.  He's bound to do well in this country.  You
ain't a bad sort yourself, lad; but nothing to that, no more than a
young turkey is to an emu.  Well, sit down."

Mr. Winslow flung himself on the grass.  It might be rather damp, but
he dared not trust his weight and bulk on a lawn-chair.

"So your friend's going to the Bush, and going to take you with him,
eh?"

Archie's proud soul rebelled against this way of talking, but he said
nothing.  It was evident that Mr. Winslow looked upon him as a boy.

"Well, I hope you'll do right both of you.  What prospects have you?"

Archie told him how high his hopes were, and how exalted his notions.

"Them's your sentiments, eh?  Then my advice is this: Pitch 'em all
overboard--the whole jing-bang of them.  Your high-flown notions sink
you English greenhorns.  Now, when I all but offered you a position
under me----"

"Under your gardener," said Archie, smiling.

"Well, it's all the same.  I didn't mean to insult your father's son.
I wanted to know if you had the grit and the go in you."

"I think I've both, sir.  Father--Squire Broadbent----"

"Squire Fiddlestick!"

"Sir!"

"Go on, lad, never mind me.  Your father----"

"My father brought me up to work."

"Tossing hay, I suppose, raking flower-beds and such.  Well, you'll
find all this different in Australian Bush life; it is sink or swim
there."

"Well, I'm going to swim."

"Bravo, boy!"

"And now, sir, do you mean to tell me that brains go for nothing in
this land of contrariety?"

"No," cried Winslow, "no, lad.  Goodness forbid I should give you
that impression.  If I had only the gift of the gab, and were a good
writer, I'd send stuff to this paper" (here he struck the sheet that
lay on the grass) "that would show men how I felt, and I'd be a
member of the legislature in a year's time.  But this is what I say,
lad, _Brains without legs and arms, and a healthy stomach, are no
good here_, or very little.  We want the two combined; but if either
are to be left out, why leave out the brains.  There is many an
English youth of gentle birth and good education that would make
wealth and honour too in this new land of ours, if he could pocket
his pride, don a workman's jacket, and put his shoulder to the wheel.
That's it, d' ye see?"

"I think I do."

"That's right.  Now tell me about your uncle.  Dear old man!  We
never had a cross word all the time I sailed with him."

Archie did tell him all, everything, and even gave him his last
letter to read.

By-and-by Etheldene came back, still leading her exaggerated
schoolboy.

"Sit down, Mr. Cooper, on the grass.  That's the style."

"Well," cried Archie, laughing, "if everybody is going to squat on
the grass, so shall I."

Even Etheldene laughed at this; and when the governess came, and
servants with the tea, they found a very happy family indeed.

After due introductions, Winslow continued talking to Bob.

"That's it, you see, Mr. Cooper; and I'm right glad you've come to me
for advice.  What I don't know about settling in Bushland isn't worth
knowing, though I say it myself.  There are plenty long-headed
fellows that have risen to riches very quickly, but I believe, lad,
the same men would have made money in their own country.  They are
the geniuses of finance; fellows with four eyes in their head, and
that can look two ways at once.  But they are the exception, and the
ordinary man needn't expect such luck, because he won't get it.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Archie and Etheldene are sitting on the grass with their new friend, Bob. Mr. Winslow joins them and starts talking to Bob about his plans to go to the Bush. He advises him to pitch his high-flown notions overboard and to focus on practical skills. He tells him that brains without legs and arms are no good in Australia.
Archie tells Mr. Winslow about his uncle and gives him his last letter to read. The governess and servants bring them tea. They all have a happy conversation.