What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Furness frowned.

"I don't know what the tests were," he said with a trace of impatience.
"They tested everything. They say everything's all right. I'm no
reaction motor technician! I'm a pilot! They give me a ship and I fly
it! I leave the other stuff to the slide-rule boys!"

"Who are plenty good," agreed McCauley, "and since the take-off's
scheduled, that's that. We take off at 1200 hours tomorrow."

He had complete confidence in the adequacy of his training in the
mock-up back in Dayton, but it did assume that the ship would function
according to its design. He'd have preferred to verify the point he'd
raised. The record of rocket shoot failures includes at least one
rocket that didn't leave the launching pad because a certain valve
closed three one-thousandths of a second late. It took two months to
repair the damage so the rocket could be tried again. Then it worked
perfectly.

Everything might have been--should have been--almost certainly had
been--foreseen. But the chance of trouble was certainly greatest in the
cut-in and cut-out feature that was necessary if the X-21 was to make
its flight successfully.

"I'm sorry," Furness said elaborately, "that I was more concerned about
meeting a situation that bothered the brass than guessing at questions
you might raise. I told the general we'd be ready to take off. I'll
tell him I was mistaken, that you're not ready."

McCauley grew impatient.

"Confound it, man!" he protested. "There are patrol ships taking
position! The monitor stations will be alerted! There've been too many
shoots called off or postponed! This one can't be postponed! I asked a
question. You can't answer it. The answer would almost certainly be
that there were plenty of cut-out trials. I withdraw the question. It's
canceled! But it wasn't unreasonable to ask!"

Furness bit his lip.

"Just the same," Furness said sourly, "you're not satisfied that I said
we'd be ready to go without asking you first. Look here! Would you
rather have somebody else fly observer with you?"

"I didn't suggest such a thing," said McCauley angrily, "and it's
ridiculous to think of it. No! Forget the whole business!"

"It looks to me as if you resent my action," Furness said stiffly. "I
shouldn't have spoken for you without written authority. I'll try to
remember, hereafter, that you're the pilot and I'm only the observer."

McCauley controlled his temper with difficulty.

"This is lunacy!" he said shortly. "The thing's settled. We take off
at noon tomorrow. I'm told the ship will fly. I'm ordered to fly it.
You're ordered to fly with me. That's that, so far as I'm concerned!"

Furness said as stiffly as before:

"That's quite all right with me too. I should tell you, though, that my
wife wanted me to invite you for dinner tonight. The general was to be
there too, for a private talk over the prospects and so on. And I've
got a son who's been fairly jumping with excitement over the prospect
of meeting Major McCauley, the first man ever to take off in a pure
rocket and get down to ground again. But you'll hardly accept that
invitation, feeling as you do. I'll say you declined because you want
to get some extra sleep tonight since you intend to watch the fuel-up
tomorrow."

McCauley blinked at him in amazement. Furness went out.

When he'd gone, McCauley swore to himself. This was more of the
attitude he disliked, expecting him to feel self-important. It was one
of the penalties of having done something that got publicity. But there
was absolutely nothing he could do about it.

Certainly it had been reasonable to mention the one thing that bothered
him! The X-21 would take off on jatos, ride to the limit of the
atmosphere on ramjets, and have the rocket motor take over there. To
get the exact course and speed he needed, he'd undoubtedly have to use
the rocket engine in a series of bursts after the original acceleration
run. He'd have to turn it off between times. And while an alcohol-lox
rocket motor had been turned off and on in flight, no hydrazine-nitric
rocket ever had been. Nobody had ever needed to. McCauley would. And
the idea was hair-raising.

Rocket fuel is tricky stuff at best. In the earlier X-series ships,
alcohol and lox--liquid oxygen--and in one or two cases ammonia and
lox, were used in the engines. They could be jettisoned in case a
dead-stick landing was necessary. But nobody in his senses would
think of jettisoning nitric and hydrazine as an emergency measure.
That was the pair, though, that was being used in the X-21. Their
great advantage is that they do not need to be ignited. Their great
disadvantage is that they become active when they are combined.
McCauley had inspected the fuel delivery system and he was concerned
about it. In the static runs of the ship's rocket engine everything had
gone well. If all went well in space, everything would be fine. But if
something didn't....


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish conflict between the two main characters. The author achieves this by having them argue with each other over a point of contention.