Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
A shudder passed over Teddys body. Memory returned with a rush, and
with it came desperate realization. He was trapped here, alone, and
he had no way to tell Roy and the others where he was! Suppose they
never found him? Suppose the horse he had fallen from wandered far
off and misled the others in their search? Teddy gave a shiver. Then
he straightened up. Have to cut that out. He had been in worse fixes
than this, and he always had gotten out all right. He would this
time, too. Dad and Roy would surely find him. If he only had some
water! He was burning up.

He put his hand to his head and brought it away covered with a dark,
sticky substance. Blood! No wonder it ached so. Hed have to find
some water and bathe it.

Over to the right was some sort of a depression in the rock. Perhaps
there was water there! Hope surging high within him, the ranch boy
staggered toward the spot and, with a cry of joy, flung himself face
downward beside a pool of sparkling water. He buried his face in it,
and drank in great gulps.

The point of saturation being reached, Teddy stopped, and, tearing a
piece from his shirt, soaked it in the water and bathed his head.
The coolness felt wonderfully soothing, and, much refreshed, the boy
arose and considered matters. The situation seemed not half so
desperate as it had been before he had found the spring.

True, night was approaching and the pangs of hunger were becoming
more severe.

Yet if one has water, one can go for a number of days without
food, the boy murmured. And I feel sure that help will come before
long.

Up to this point the boy had refrained from calling, both from a
feeling of weakness and the thought that it would do little good.
Now, however, he raised his head and sent a yell echoing up into the
stillness. He waited tensely for an answer. None came, and, after a
moment, he shouted again. But his head was beginning to whirl, and
he was compelled to sit down for a moment.

Cant afford to do much of that, he said grimly to himself.

A thought came to him, and he drew his revolver, which, luckily, was
still in the holster at his side. He pointed it aloft and was about
to pull the trigger when he hesitated. Then, with a gesture of
despair, he shoved the gun back into the holster. He could not waste
the ammunition. If night caught him here, it was probable that he
would need all his bullets for defense against the animals which
might seek out that spring. They would not wantonly attack him, he
knew, but if they thought he was trying to keep them from water,
they might attempt to make an onset on him. The animals were all of
the cat family, but Teddy had seen some huge mountain lions in that
section. They could easily kill a defenseless man if they were so
minded.

Feeling much stronger now, Teddy proceeded thoroughly to investigate
his prison. If there were a means of escape, it would be well to
find it before night settled, otherwise he would have to wait until
morning. He could take no chances on climbing up a cliff in the
dark, especially in his weakened condition.

First he threw himself on his face at the edge of the cliff and
peered down. That way was closed to him--the rock was as smooth as a
shingled roof and it would be worse than folly to attempt a descent.
There was but one thing left--to climb up, if he could, and regain
the ledge from which he had fallen.

At first glance, this seemed as hopeless as it would be to climb
down. But Teddy, born and reared in this country, knew that though
often these crags appear insurmountable they are not really so, for
by clinging to the vines which grow on them and getting a foothold
in small depressions worn by the action of the elements, one can
sometimes reach the top. Certainly, it was dangerous. Yet, Teddy
thought, he had just fallen from the very height he wished to
conquer. And, with a grim smile, he murmured:

Whats one fall more or less between friends?

Taking another long drink from the spring, Teddy began his tour of
inspection. The red of the sky had deepened to orange, and the boy
knew that at the most, he had but an hour of daylight left. If he
were going to make the attempt, now was the time.

Tightening his belt, the boy walked over to the rocky wall. Here the
vines seemed heaviest, and Teddy experimented by seizing one of the
creepers and resting his weight on it. There was a crackling of wood
as it pulled away from the side of the cliff, but it held, and Teddy
determined to take the chance.

He was just about to draw himself up when a noise behind him caused
him to hesitate. He did not immediately look around, for he was held
in that sort of helpless panic one feels when he realizes there is
something behind which one dreads to face. Hands upraised, clutching
the vine, Teddy stood motionless. But he must look behind him. He
had that queer feeling that he was not alone--that some one or
something was standing on the rocky floor, watching him.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is from Teddy's perspective, and the tone is one of fear and desperation.