Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
V

LOCH ARKAIG

Day followed day with no sign of the soldiers, and as time passed,
Rob wished most fervently that Muckle John had not disappeared so
abruptly, leaving him in an unknown country with a helpless old man.

One morning there was a movement in Lovat's hut and the old chief
stood peering out of the doorway looking very savage and uncouth.  He
had forgotten to place his wig on his head and the scattered tags of
grey hair were caught by every gust of wind.

"Rob," he said at last, shivering with the cold, "take a day in the
hills and learn where the English are and whether a French frigate is
off the coast."

Only too glad to fall in with such a suggestion Rob prepared to set
off at once.  Suddenly Lord Lovat called to him.

"Rob," he said, "where did you come from that night?"

"I came from Culloden."

"Culloden--and did you meet anyone on the road?"

"Only Muckle John."

The Fraser's cold eyes swooped down on him like a hawk dropping from
the clouds.

"Muckle John," he repeated, "I seem to know the name--so you came
with him did ye?  And where were you, Rob, when the horsemen arrived?
Was Muckle John with you then?"

"No, he had left me."

"Of course--of course--and then he came back and told you he was
going away on important business, Rob."

"He said he would return."

At that Lovat left him, laughing as though something mightily funny
had been said.  But at the door he turned, still convulsed with his
humour, and wagging a finger at him remarked:

"Mind my words, laddie, the race is not always to the swift nor the
battle to the strong."

But Rob only looked at him in wonder, seeing nothing but an old sick
man overtaken by dotage.

Then setting out upon the heather he made for the head of Loch Arkaig.

[Illustration: HE PEERED THROUGH THE HEATHER UPON THE BEACH.]

Throughout the day he saw no glimpse of red-coats, and when evening
was falling he stepped boldly down upon the shore of the loch, and
thence onward to Lochnanuagh, where, to his excitement, the white
sails of a frigate were bellied out with the breeze.  Hastily
concealing himself he peered through the heather upon the beach where
a great number of people, principally Camerons and Macdonalds, were
collected, and with them a squarely built, consequential little man
very plainly dressed, who seemed greatly agitated about the numbers
on the shore and anxious to disperse the crowd at all costs.  But the
more he cajoled and threatened the more closely they thronged the
beach, and in the meanwhile the frigate had run down her anchor and
lowered a boat.  In it Rob could distinguish four men and some cargo,
which had been slung down from the deck.  On the shore there was a
sudden silence almost startling after the clash of voices before.
The creak of the rowlocks came nearer, and though far up the hill--so
still was the day--Rob could catch the French manner of their speech,
and once he heard the small man upon the beach cough and blow his
nose.

But immediately the keel of the boat grated upon the shingle, the
greatest animation was displayed.  The sailors threw the cargo (which
comprised some half-dozen little casks) upon the sand, and under the
instructions of the little man they were carried into a secluded
place and a rope slipped round them, whereupon he set about paying
the sailors.

At that moment, however, there was a sullen boom like the noise of a
gun far out at sea, and without a second's delay the boat shot away
to the frigate, the anchor was raised, and running up her canvas she
wheeled like a sea-bird and catching the breeze sped towards open
water.  From the noise of firing out at sea it was apparent that an
action was in progress between an English man-of-war and the French
ships.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The tone of this scene is one of suspense and excitement, as the reader is left wondering what will happen next. The point of view is third person limited, as we only know what Rob sees and hears. The style is straightforward and simple, with short sentences and clear descriptions.