Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XI

CHECKMATED


Fays first movement was a start of surprise. He gripped the rail and
waited as the dingy Dutch ship backed, starboarded, then started to turn
in the confined waters of the canal.

Over him surged a rage which mounted in hot waves of blood to his
temples. He stood before the door, behind which crouched the man who had
set the trap in the Holland marsh, and who held the cipher-key.

He felt caution vanish in one desire. He bunched his muscles and hurtled
toward the door. He struck it with staggering force. A crash resounded
above the sounds of shore-leaving. Seamen hurried in his direction.
Seeing red, and grimly determined to smash through to Dutch Gus, he
glided back against the rail, then lunged forwardthis time with double
force.

The stout door was immovable. One panel gave, however. Through this
opening an arm was thrust. A funnel of crimson fire stabbed the night. A
bullet clipped a piece from the rail. A roar sounded as a second shot
was fired from an American revolver.

Fay staggered to one side of the door and wiped his face. He had not
been struck. The blood that showed was from the old stone bruise. A
sailor clutched his arm. He swiftly turned.

Theres a crazy man in that cabin, he explained. Open it up so I can
see what is the matter with him.

I dank you better look out, said the seaman. I dank I better see der
capitan. Ya, dat fellow is crazy!

Dutch Gus thrust out the automatic revolver. A Holland mate appeared and
swung down from the boat deck. He stared at Fay and then at the smashed
panel.

The cracksman pointed toward the door.

Youve got a mad passenger. He almost killed me. You should put him in
irons, he declared firmly.

The mate glanced at Fay. He turned and advanced toward the cabin door.
The automatic was jerked inside. A table or shelf was held over the
opening. The crook was taking no chances. He had barricaded himself
inside the cabin! A mattress and a blanket were stuffed in the opening.

Fay saw the uselessness of arguing the matter. A boswain and two seamen
conferred with the mate. A purser came up. Fay grasped his arm and
asked:

Where is the lady I was with? What is the number of her cabin?

The purser jerked his head toward the stern of the boat. Fay followed
him through the gloom. The ship was gliding by the shores of the canal.
The fog was heavyimpenetrable. The siren aft the funnel blared a
long-drawn warning. Bridges were swung to let the ship pass. Fisher
boats were drawn out of the way.

Saidee Isaacs stood at the rail in the stern of the freighter. Boxes,
bales and crates formed a barricade between her and the cabins. She had
not noticed the commotion in the forward part of the ship. Fay dismissed
the purser and glided to her side.

Come to your cabin! he exclaimed bitterly. Dutch Gus has stolen the
cipher-key! Hes aboard. But Ill get it from him!Im in this thing,
nowall the way!

Wherewhen? she questioned eagerly. Checkmated?

Fay stared at the sea over the stern of the ship. His face grew gloomy
with thought. It came to him with the force of a blow that he had been
careless in the matterso careless that it would be very hard to explain
to Sir Richard.

Yes, he beat me to it, he said, lowering his voice and backing against
the rail. Hes got the package that contains the key in his cabin.

You dropped itlost it?

Fay pressed his hand over his forehead. A stain of blood was on his
fingers as he drew them away.

It was when I went back for the bagsthe thing happened, Saidee. Im
not over it yet. I got what I deserve for being so careless.

The cracksman paused and stared into her crimsoning face. The olive
beauty was gone. In its place had crept a saffron hue which seemed to
center in her eyes. She stamped her foot on the deck.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of mystery and danger. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is tense and foreboding.