What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XLII


HUGH RIDES TO AN APPOINTMENT

Bald Knob hummed with activities. The Ground Hog was taking out
quantities of rich ore. On Vickys claim the leasers had struck a vein
which might or might not develop into a paying proposition. A dozen
other shafts were going down and from the side of the hill a tunnel was
progressing at a right angle toward the Ground Hog drift.

The fame of the new discovery had spread over the state and from all
directions prospectors were stampeding to the diggings. A steady stream
of wagons wound up and down the hill. They brought to the camp flour,
bacon, whisky, coal oil, dynamite, canned goods, clothing, lumber,
chickens, honey, hay, and the thousand other staples needed by the young
camp. Stores at Piodie set up branch establishments in tents and flimsy
shacks. Other merchants came in from Eureka and Virginia. Freight
outfits moved bag and baggage to Bald Knob, wagons loaded to the side
boards with supplies. Gamblers and women of loose reputation joined the
rush, keen to help reap the harvest always ripe in a young live mining
camp.

The most important and the busiest man in the new camp was Hugh
McClintock. He was a third owner of the Ground Hog and he had claims of
his own in addition. He managed the teaming and contracting business of
himself and his brother, now with temporary headquarters at Budd & Byers
corral. Moreover, he was looked on as unofficial father of the camp. To
him came drifters out of work, men who proposed the incorporation of a
town in the saddle of the dromedary-backed hill, solicitors for
contributions to an emergency hospital, and scores of others who had
troubles or difficulties they wanted to unload.

On the afternoon of a sunny day came to him also a barefoot Negro boy
with a note. The note read:

Are you awflly busy, Hugh? I want to see you. Meet me at the
schoolhouse at five-thirty to-day. Be sure and come. It is very
important.

Vicky Lowell.

If Vicky said it was important for him to meet her, he knew she was not
overstressing it. That young woman was impulsive and sometimes
imperious, but it was not in her character to call a busy man from his
work without a valid reason. It was her custom to stay at the
schoolhouse and prepare the lessons for next day so that she might have
the evenings free to read or to go out with friends. Twice he had gone
out to the schoolhouse and walked home with her in order to talk over
some difficulty that had arisen in regard to the leasing of her claim.
But he had gone of his own volition and not at her request.

There were moments during the afternoon, while he was talking over
business matters with the people who poured into his office, when his
pulses quickened delightfully, when he was aware of an undertug of
excitement coursing through his blood. Was it possible that Vicky sent
for him becausebecause she cared for him?

He rejected this, too, as out of character, as a kind of treason to her.
She was proud and held her self-respect in high esteem. Even if she
cared for him she would let him travel the whole road to her. Her lover
must come out into the open and ask for all he hoped to gain.

There had been hours of late when Hughs heart had been lifted with
hope, hours when their spirits had met in the mountain tops and they had
rejoiced in the exploration of each others minds. The mentality of
girls was a _terra incognita_ to him. He had lived among men from his
youth. Never before had he met a soul so radiant, so quick with life, so
noble in texture, as hers, he told himself. The glamour of her
personality coloured all his thoughts of her. The lift of her throat as
she would turn the beautifully poised little head, the dark flash of her
eyes so mobile in expression, the soft glow of colour in her clear
complexion, even the intellectual quality of her immature thinking, went
to his head like strong wine.

He was in love, with all the clean strength of his natureand he
rejoiced in his love and let it flood his life. It permeated all his
actions and thoughts, quickened his vitality. Because he had gone so far
in life sufficient to himself the experience was wonderful and amazing
to him. His imagination halted at the threshold of his house of dreams.
He dared not let it take free rein. He would tell himself humbly that
this golden girl was not for him, and next moment he was planning how he
might see her soon and what he would say to her.

He was detained a few moments by a business detail that had to be
settled with a foreman, and after that a committee of citizens met in
his office to decide about the organization of a fire department for the
camp. He was on edge to be gone, but he could not very well walk out
from a meeting he himself had called. When at last he got away he knew
that he was nearly fifteen minutes late for his appointment with Vicky.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish Hugh's character and to set up the conflict of the story. Hugh is a busy man who is in love with Vicky Lowell. Vicky has called him to the schoolhouse to talk to him about something important, but he is late because he was detained by business matters.