Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
THREE

The Other World


Crandall awoke to the faint sounds of farm life and spent a few sleepy
moments wondering where he was. The low of a cow, the creak of a
windmill, and the bustle of activity in another part of the house;
the sigh of a free wind and the whisper of leaves--none of these were
indigenous to his normal habitat and it annoyed him until the sleep
left him and he recalled.

Days of hard work and too little sleep, the relaxation of the farm for
an evening. Jane. Jane!

Crandall swore mildly. He became introspective and carefully analyzed
his feelings, even though he knew that he was hopelessly incapable
of coming to an honest solution about himself. His glands and his
intellect were at wide variance. He had no right to ask for nor could
he offer love.

Dave growled at himself and climbed out of bed. A cool shower helped;
he was glad that the Nolan farm was not of the older variety. Here
at least was farm life with almost every comfort of urban living. He
dressed and then went down the stairs slowly.

"Sleepyhead," Jane called as she saw him. "It's nearly nine o'clock."

"Middle of the night," he said.

"Dad and Mom have been up for hours."

"And you?"

"Positively minutes." Jane came to him, face upraised. He kissed her
and momentarily forgot his troubles.

But it all ended too soon. Breakfast was leisurely, and then they were
off, back to Merion.

They arrived at the laboratory in an hour, and then the bustle of
activity herded Dave's introspective feelings out of his mind.

He discovered that the night of relaxation had sharpened his mind. He
ran through the program once more in the remote lab, and then they
announced that he was ready to try the real thing.

Dave went to the jeep. Jane followed.

"Dave--be careful."

"As possible," he agreed. He kissed her and then started off towards
the remote lab that still held the crystal clamped in the electrodes.

_They_ wanted physicists, huh? He'd show them, whoever they were. He'd
fox them. The trick was completely incomprehensible, but however they
did it, it was as neat a program of treachery as had been invented in
all history. In an earlier day the enemy went for the leaders, the
generals and the admirals and the kings and emperors. Now it was the
engineers and physicists, for it was science that carried victory. The
most brilliant military strategist was a mere cork bobbing on the rim
of a whirlpool if he were not equipped with the latest and best that
could come from applied physics.

But Dave was not a physicist. He was just a scribbler of articles, an
occasional writer of fiction. So Dave was not the man _they_ wanted.
Let them sit and chew their fingernails while he, a zero quantity as
far as they were concerned, toyed with the crystal. It wouldn't be
practical to waste the crystal on him, any more than it was practical
to hurl a can of SPAM[1] at a convoy escort.

[Footnote 1: For Self Propelled Atomic Missile: a humorous contraction
used in a novel, "Murder of the U.S.A.," by Will F. Jenkins, shortly
after World War II. When self-propelled guided missiles came into
being, General Lansdowne conferred Jenkins' appellation upon them and
the name has remained.--G.O.S.]

Dave arrived at the remote lab and went to work. They checked him
through the video and the sound channel both ways, and then Dave turned
toward the crystal.

"The power," he said, "is being built up, as you can hear in the
background, the generators are groaning a bit under the initial heavy
load. The--ah--gaussmeter is rising up the scale. It occurs to me
that the boys on the other side of this might well be chewing their
fingernails at the moment. If I've got this thing figured right, _they_
can see into this lab and know me and who I am--and possibly what I am
doing. Maybe they've even figured out the why of it.

"Now, the next item is something I've been keeping quiet about. I doubt
that _they_ can read minds, but I'm pretty sure they can hear us and
watch us. So I've kept quiet until now.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of humor. The point of view is first person, from Dave's perspective. The tone is one of determination and resolve.