Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
He had hastily stooped to keep from bashing his head and he had to keep
on stooping more and more until he was bent more than halfway over
before the click of the automatic timer released him.

"This is a little too much of a good thing," he muttered and was
startled at the sound of his own voice. It was light and fluttery with
a sound like soap bubbles bursting in midair.

"Professor!" he called. "Professor Dexter! Where are you?"

The tiniest of squeaks came up to him. Still feeling light-headed and
dizzy, Curtis searched the area carefully. With horror he spotted at
last, the diminutive, toy-like figure of his friend.

He took a careful step forward. His limbs seemed to float, with little
effort, which was fortunate, for he felt as weak as though he had just
emerged from a long illness.

Then he realized there was only one way to get close. He lay down flat
on the floor, doubling up at knees and waist and got his face close to
the tiny figure of Dexter.

"Get me out of here!" the mannikin squeaked painfully. "Start the
machine and reverse it!"

Professor Curtis clambered to his feet.

If Clarissa could see us now, he thought. I am twenty feet tall and
Professor Dexter is three inches tall. What a pair!

Weakly he lumbered back to his machine and reached for the control.
Then, crowning horror of horrors! The lever sank right into his hand!

It hurt like the devil too, and he pulled back his arm with a yelp of
pain. Carefully he tried again. And again the solid metal seemed to
push right through the flesh.

Dazed, frightened, he cautiously tried to touch other objects. There
was always the same result. Everything penetrated his tissues like a
needle going through cloth. Yet he did not bleed.

Terrified, he went down on his stomach to report this new catastrophe
to Professor Dexter. The shrunken scientist groaned.

"That was the one thing I forgot," he squeaked. "I forgot that no
matter how I altered the size of the atoms in our bodies, the mass
would remain the same. Thus I am now so heavy that I cannot move. You
are so light that you have no strength and your atoms are so dispersed
that solid objects penetrate your tissues and you cannot move the
switch. We are trapped, Professor Curtis, trapped like miserable rats
in a cage!"

There was a timeless moment of despair during which the two pioneers
stared at each other in hopeless terror. Only Professor Curtis saw a
mere pinpoint of white face too small for features, while Professor
Dexter saw a huge floating blob of a planet like the full moon looming
over him.

There was a sudden and welcome interruption. The door banged and
Clarissa Wilkins' crisp efficient voice came to their ears.

"What's going on in here?" she demanded. "Professor Curtis, is that
you? What have you been doing to yourself? Get up off the floor!"

"Careful!" Professor Curtis panted, beginning to unjoint himself.
"Don't step on Professor Dexter!"

"Step on him? My heavens, where is he?"

"She wouldn't hurt me if she did," Dexter groaned to himself. "Probably
break her foot."

"Clarissa--er--Professor Wilkins, turn on the machine for us!" Curtis
gasped, pointing wildly to the starting switch.

"Tell her to reverse the polarity!" Dexter squeaked.

Clarissa snorted as she moved purposely toward the machine.

"I always thought you two theorists were too childlike to be left
alone," she snapped. "I knew you'd get into trouble and need a woman to
get you out!"

Efficiently she reversed and started the machine as Professor Curtis
stepped into the path of the rays. Before her startled eyes he
shrank--shrank--shrank back to his normal elevator-shoed tubbiness, and
the timer clicked off the machine.

With a gasp of relief, Professor Curtis leaped forward and did the
necessary for Dexter's machine. To Clarissa's even greater wonder,
Dexter grew rapidly out of the floor and shot up into his normal
gangling six feet four.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

In the scene, two friends are trapped after an experiment goes wrong. One is shrunken to three inches tall, while the other has grown to twenty feet tall. They are unable to move or communicate their situation to anyone. 
Luckily, their colleague Clarissa Wilkins comes in and, after some confusion, is able to reverse the machine and return them to normal.