Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Carlin stepped forward and from his vantage in the dark peered into the
big lighted room. Jonny and Harb Land were putting back the metal cover
on the central mechanism, before they too quit work.

One glance at the interior of that machine was enough for Carlin's
trained eyes. Those big magnetic-current coils, that massive beam-head,
that battery of Markheim filters--he had been right, they spelled
disaster.

A small, hard object prodded Carlin's back and a voice throbbing with
anger spoke in his ear.

"This is an atom-pistol. Raise your hands. I don't want to harm you."

"Marn!" he exclaimed, stunned.

"Don't turn!" warned the girl. Her voice was choked with wrath. "I
heard you get up and I followed you out here. You are a spy!"

[Illustration: "Don't turn!" warned the girl. "I followed you here. You
are a spy!"]

Carlin was so stunned with horror by his discovery of the brothers'
catastrophic plans, that he reacted by sheer, desperate impulse to the
weapon in his back. He swung around and grabbed for the atom-pistol.

It would have been suicidal, had another than Marn been holding the
weapon. But Marn, as much a stranger as he to deadly violence, let her
finger hesitate on the trigger too long. Perhaps she would not have
fired in any case. Pondering it later, he was not sure.

What happened was that he got his hand on the slim pistol and snatched
it out of her grasp before her hesitation ended. Marn, her face white,
called frantically:

"Harb! Jonny!"

The two brothers came running out from the rear of the lighted
workshop, Harb's craggy face dark and deadly as he saw them.

Carlin jumped back, leveled the weapon he had just taken from the girl.

"Get back!" he ordered hoarsely. And as Harb Land, blindly raging, came
on: "I don't want to kill anybody!"

Jonny's voice rang command. The lame youngster's thin brown face was
set, but he had not lost calm.

"Harb, stop!"

The thing froze into a queer sort of tableau as Harb Land pulled up
and stood there, his giant figure quivering with wrath, his big fists
clenched as he glared at Carlin.

"I told you," Harb said thickly over his shoulder to his brother. "I
told you what would happen if we took him in."

Marn had run toward them, her face pale and stricken.

"It's my fault, Jonny," she said despairingly. "I heard him come out
and followed him, but let him take my gun instead of shooting."

"Quiet, Marn," soothed Jonny. "It's going to be all right. Carlin just
doesn't understand."

The lame youngster, in this taut moment of strain, was suddenly the
biggest of them, the dominating personality here.

"I understand, all right," Carlin said hotly. "I guessed it tonight,
and one look at that magnetic dredge confirmed my guess." His voice
crackled with the rising wrath he felt. "Going to Mercury prospecting,
were you? You never had any such plan. You and your partners have been
getting ready to attempt sun-mining."

Jonny's eyes and voice were calm as he said:

"Carlin, Earth's starved for power. You've seen for yourself. To get
the power that will revive our world, we've got to have copper. And
the copper in our planets was exhausted long ago. But there's still
billions of tons of copper in our System, in one place. The Sun. It's
there in hot gases, more copper than Earth and our sister-planets will
need for millenniums to come. It's our only possible source of copper
and we intend to tap it."

"You and the others have brooded so long over your need for copper that
you've gone crazy!" Carlin said, his voice whipped with anger.

"What's crazy about our using the copper of the Sun for our planet?"
Jonny asked evenly.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Carlin is a spy who has discovered the Land brothers' plans to mine the sun for copper. He is caught by Marn, who is holding an atom-pistol to his back. Carlin manages to grab the gun from her and orders the brothers to back away. Jonny tries to calm the situation, explaining that they need the copper to revive their planet. Carlin is incredulous, but Jonny insists that they have no other choice.