Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
Leaning on her smoking gun, the Grand Duchess said to me with a wan
smile, "Go and see...."

Obediently I staggered up and passed the green wall. Behind it, in a
pool of blood fast soaking into the ground, Melusine von Graffenfried
was writhing in her death agony, her face literally blown to bits by the
charge which she had received almost at point-blank range.

"What a ghastly accident!" I cried in a horror-stricken voice.

The Grand Duchess had come out of her bower.

One of Melusine's eyes was blown out, but the other was fixed on Aurora
with a mad look of terror and torture.

Aurora gazed at her coldly, and murmured the words of Hamlet after he
had killed Polonius:

"_I took thee for thy better!_"

With a horrible gasp Melusine expired.

For one moment the Grand Duchess stood motionless. The rigid lines in
her face almost terrified me. Not a tremor shook her at the
contemplation of the dead girl's glassy eye.

"Let's go back," she said at length, "we must let them know about this
fresh calamity."

From my trembling fingers she took the light, engraved gun which had
been Melusine's, and laid it down beside the corpse.

She signed to me to stay behind, and went off quickly.

Left alone with the corpse, at first I couldn't bring myself to look at
it.

My God! where was now that lovely smooth skin, that perfect oval face,
those melting eyes. Loathsome, bloody pulp of flesh, earth and hair.

Disgusting green insects were already buzzing round the horrid mass. I
cut a leafy hazel branch and kept brushing them off, much as the old
muffin men at home brush the flies off their trays with paper fans.

The Grand Duchess was soon back. Madame von Wendel, two or three
waiting-women and Melusine's maid came with her, weeping copiously. With
her usual self-possession she gave the necessary orders. Melusine's body
was placed on a stretcher and carried to the palace.

Just as we reached it we saw the Grand Duke coming to meet the sad
procession. He was on his way to visit the casualties of the night, when
he was informed of the new blow that had fallen upon the Court of
Lautenburg.

He rushed up visibly moved.

"Oh, madame," he said, pressing Aurora's hand, "what a dreadful
misfortune."

"Fate brings these catastrophes, sir," replied the Grand Duchess, with
wonderful self-possession.

"However did it happen?"

"How should I know, sir?" replied Aurora. "Truth to tell I know no more
about it than you yourself know of the origin of tonight's fire."

The blow went home, but the Grand Duke did not lower his head.

"You are right, what does it matter how it happened since the dreadful
results are only too self-evident? Let me associate myself with you in
mourning the terrible loss you have suffered in Frulein von
Graffenfried's death."

"Terrible it is, sir," replied Aurora, "and that is why I hasten to
express my gratitude to you, since I have you to thank for the fact that
it is not utterly irreparable. Perhaps you had some forebodings of what
was to come when you decided to give me a second confidante in the
person of Monsieur Vignerte?"

Frederick-Augustus bit his lips. But his reply was terrible.

"I know, Madame, that you value M. Vignerte's services highly, and I am
delighted. And if Frulein von Graffenfried's dreadful end moves me so
much, in its effect on yourself, it is because I know that there are
some things for which a woman is irreplaceable."

Such an exchange of envenomed condolences seemed to me almost
terrifying. Kessel, Colonel von Wendel, and the others who were standing
round, had no idea of the full meaning of the tragedy. I was at once
proud and dismayed to share such confidences. Memories of Professor
Thierry shot through my mind. I had promised him never to mix myself up
in the private affairs of the Lautenburg sovereigns!...


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The Grand Duchess Aurora has just killed her rival, Melusine von Graffenfried, in a duel. As they stand over the corpse, the Grand Duke comes to meet them and Aurora coldly tells him that she does not know how the accident happened. The Grand Duke is visibly moved and tells her that she is right, it does not matter how it happened. He then expresses his condolences and Aurora thanks him for giving her Monsieur Vignerte as a second confidante.