What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Do not anger them, he said, it will only make your fate the harder.
When The Twentyfour command, all must obey.

Who are The Twentyfour? I demanded.

They compose the committee that rules this Kalkar city.

I was thoroughly awakened now and rose to my feet, following him into
the adjoining chamber, where I saw two Kalkar warriors standing
impatiently awaiting us. As I saw them a phrase leaped to my brain and
kept repeating itself: There are but two, there are but two.

They were across the room from us, standing by the entrance, and Moh-goh
was close to me.

There are but two, I whispered to him in a low voice, you take one
and I will take the other. Do you dare?

I will take the one at the right, he replied, and together we advanced
across the room slowly toward the unsuspecting warriors. The moment that
we were in reach of them we leaped for them simultaneously. I did not
see how Moh-goh attacked his man, for I was busy with my own, though it
took me but an instant to settle him, for I struck him a single terrific
blow upon the chin and as he fell I leaped upon him, wresting his dagger
from its scabbard and plunging it into his heart before he could regain
his senses from the stunning impact of my fist. Then I turned to assist
Moh-goh, only to discover that he needed no assistance, but was already
arising from the body of his antagonist, whose throat was cut from ear
to ear with his own weapon.

Quick! I cried to Moh-goh, drag them into the sleeping apartment
before we are discovered; and a moment later we had deposited the two
corpses in the dimly lighted apartment adjoining.

We will leave the city as Kalkar warriors, I said, commencing to strip
the accoutrements and garments from the man I had slain.

Moh-goh grinned. Not a bad idea, he said. If you can find the route
to the crater it is possible that we may yet escape.

It took us but a few moments to effect the change, and after we had
hidden the bodies beneath the vegetation that had served us as a bed and
stepped out into the other chamber, where we could have a good look at
one another, we realized that if we were not too closely scrutinized we
might pass safely through the corridors beneath the Kalkar city, for the
Kalkars are a mongrel breed, comprising many divergent types. My
complexion, which differed outrageously from that of either the Kalkars
or the Laytheans, constituted our greatest danger, but we must take the
chance, and at least we were armed.

Lead the way, said Moh-goh, and if you can find the crater I can
assure you that I can find Laythe.

Very good, I said, come, and stepping into the corridor I moved off
confidently in the direction that I knew I should find the passageways
and stairs along which I had been conducted from the crater tunnel. I
was as confident of success as though I were traversing the most
familiar precinct of my native city.

We traveled a considerable distance without meeting anyone, and at last
reached the chamber in which I had been blindfolded. As we entered it I
saw fully a score of Kalkars lolling upon benches or lying upon
vegetation that was piled upon the floor. They looked up as we entered,
and at the same time Moh-goh stepped in front of me.

Who are you and where are you going? demanded one of the Kalkars.

By order of The Twentyfour, said Moh-goh, and stepped into the room.
Instantly I realized that he did not know in which direction to go, and
that by his hesitancy all might be lost.

Straight ahead, straight across the room, I whispered to him, and he
stepped out briskly in the direction of the entrance to the tunnel.
Fortunately for us, the chamber was not brilliantly lighted, and the
Kalkars were at the far end of it; otherwise they must certainly have
discovered my deception, at least, since any sort of close inspection
would have revealed the fact that I was not of Va-nah. However, they did
not halt us, though I was sure that I saw one of them eyeing me
suspiciously, and I venture to say that I took the last twenty steps
without drawing a breath.

It was quickly over, however, and we had entered the tunnel which now
led without further confusing ramifications directly to the crater.

We were fortunate, I said to Moh-goh.

That we were, he replied.

In silence, then, that we might listen for pursuit, or for the sound of
Kalkars ahead of us, we hastened rapidly along the descending passageway
toward the mouth of the tunnel where it opened into the crater; and at
last, as we rounded the last turn and I saw the light of day ahead of
me, I breathed a deep sigh of relief, though almost simultaneously my
happiness turned to despair at the sudden recollection that there were
no hooked poles here to assist us to the summit of the crater wall. What
were we to do?


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters' escape plan and to create suspense as they execute it. The author achieves these goals by having the characters disguise themselves as Kalkar warriors and sneak through the city to the crater tunnel.