Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Offences against property were considered more serious than those
against life. In some camps hired desperadoes jumped claims. Hold-ups
were of frequent occurrence, and every few days a stage robbery was
reported. Nevada was too busy developing the newly discovered ore veins
to pay much attention to these excrescences from the normal.

In this rough, crude society Mollie moved with as much safety as she
could have done in a staid New England village. No ruffian could have
molested her without the danger of being lynched. The only man who
annoyed her was the one whose name she bore. When he discovered how well
she was doing financially Dodson began to hang around the Back Home to
bleed its mistress of what she earned.

Mollie was an easy victim. She never had been one to stand up for her
own rights. She fought only feebly and without success to protect
herself. Every day or two Dodson robbed the till.

He boasted of it to his cronies when he was half seas over. To Scot, who
was keeping an eye on him in expectation of just such a possibility, the
news was promptly carried. He learned that the man paid his visits to
the Back Home in the evening.

Two days later Dodson knocked at the door of the shop and was admitted.
He slouched forward to the counter and leered at the girl he had
promised to love and protect.

Come through, old woman.

I cant. Theres just enough for the rent, she pleaded.

Youre holdin out on me. Thas what youre doin. I wont stand
itnot a minute.

His eyes were glazed. He thrust his bullet head forward threateningly.
Mollie recognized the signs of the abusive stage of intoxication.
Presently he would begin to beat her if she opposed him. But she was
desperate. She could not let him take the rent money.

You cant have it. Thats all theres to it. You just cant have it,
she cried.

Mollie flew to the till as the man came round the counter. She was
between him and the money. He tried to thrust her to one side, but the
space was narrow. For a few seconds he tugged at her in vain. Then his
temper leaped out. He struck her again and again while she tried to
shield herself from the blows.

Neither of them heard the door open or saw a man step into the room.
Neither of them saw him take the counter in one flying leap. An arm
reached out and plucked Dodson from his victim. It hurled him back
against the wall, where he struck with great force, hung for a moment,
and dropped limply to the floor.

Mollie lifted her eyes to those of Scot McClintock and into the white
face came two flaming flowers. For in the eyes that burned down into
hers she read that which brought a burst of music into her heart. She
had fought against thisoh, how she had schooled herself to deny it!
But with his strong arms round her, his heart beating against her own,
what was the use of pretending any longer? Her supple body made a little
motion of nestling closer. She began to sob quietly.

Hehe

Scot brushed her explanation aside. Forget him. Hes out of your life.
Its you and I now. I kept away. I gave him his chance. I gave you yours
to go it alone. Thats ended. Im going to take care of you now.

He lifted her flushed face and kissed it.

That kiss stirred to life all the Puritan blood of Mollie, the racial
inheritance from a rock-ribbed ancestry. She pushed him from her with
all the force of a despairing energy.

No . . . no . . . no! she cried, and fled to the room back of the
shop.

She was afraid of his passionate tenderness for her, but she was afraid,
too, of the deep yearning of her whole being for the love he offered.

In the days that followed Scot McClintock fought the fight of his life.
He had always prided himself that he was master of his desires. When he
yielded to self-indulgence it was because he chose to follow for a time
the path of dalliance. But this keen-edged longing for the woman he
loved flooded his being, swept over him like great waves over a bather
in the surf. It set him fifty times pacing the floor, to and fro, to and
fro. For the first time in his life he learned that he had nerves. There
was a passionate urge in him to take what he wanted. He could make her
happy in spite of all the tongues that would clack, in spite of cynical
smiles and hard unforgiveness on the part of the world.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is rough and crude, with a hint of violence. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of desperation.