Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Seventeen! Great God! is it possible? And Manton bowed his face,
covering it with his hands, and for a long time spoke not a word,
though his frame trembled. That magical word, seventeen, had
revealed every thing to himself. He had as yet always called her by
the affectionate baby-name of Sis. He had thought of her only as a
child; for through these four weary years he had kept no note of time.
He supposed, up to this moment, that he had been feeling towards her,
too, as towards a childthe same saddened, persecuted child which had
first attracted his sympathies by her mournful expression of constant
suffering. He had never once thought before that any change had taken
place in their relations; he had still fondled her as a spoiled and
petted playmate; he still attributed the strange thrills her touch had
lately produced in him to a thousand other and innocent causes beside
the real. He had not dreamed of passion; he had only learned to dearly
love her, as he thought, because she had been developed beneath his
hand, and seemed, in some senses, almost a creation of his owna sort
of feminine elaboration of the thought of Frankenstein within himthe
creature of his own daring mind and indomitable will. Seventeen!
seventeen! Now the whole truth was flooded into his consciousness. She
was no longer a childshe was a woman. And he felt that he had indeed
loved her as a woman, while recognising her as a gay pet, a plaything.
He now understood how deep, how pure, was the unutterable fondness that
had grown thus unconsciously into his life, for her, and how monstrous
had been the relations into which the mother strove to drag and hold
him.

With the first flash of this conviction of his real feeling towards
Elna, came the purpose, as stern as it was irrevocable. He lifted his
head and turned towards the young girl, with moistened eyelids, and
said to her solemnly, and with trembling lips

Sis!Elna, do you know that you are no longer a child? that you are
now a woman?

The blood sprang to her forehead, and, with downcast eyes, she said, in
a faint voice

I know Im seventeen to-day.

Do you know, too, Elna, that we cannot continue to be to each other
that we have been?

Why, cant you be my brother still? said she, looking up quickly, as
if astonished.

Because you are a woman, dear; and I realise now, for the first time,
that I love you as a woman.

Her dilated eyes glistened, for a moment, with a strange expression of
exultation, and, in another instant, she threw her arms about the neck
of Manton, and burst into the wildest expressions of mingled ecstacy
and grief, in the midst of which she sobbed out frequently.

My mother! my poor mother! what will she do? She will never consent to
thisit will kill her.

Elna, said Manton, calmly, disengaging her clasped hands from
about his neck, your mother is an evil woman; I know, and you know,
something of her terrible passions. But she shall submit to this;
my will is her fateshe cannot escape me, now that it is thoroughly
aroused. She must bear itshe shall bear it, if it kills her. I shall
hold no middle ground; and she dare not stand before me, or openly
cross my track. This expiation is due from her to me. She has striven
to hideously wrong me, and wrong you, and she shall now reap the
consequences. I shall hold no terms with her; and you must make your
choice now, calmly, between us, for ever! I have not guarded you thus
for years, with sleepless vigilance, against her demonising influence,
to have you fall back at once into her talons. I know it is a fearful
thing to ask a child to doto sunder all instinctive ties, and go apart
into the house of strangers; but where implacable evil dwells, purity
must look to be grieved in every contact, and there are no human ties
sufficiently sacred to justify pollution of soul and body in continuing
such contacts. I love you, ElnaI feel it nowI have loved you long,
unconsciously; I would make you my true and honored wife, within
another yearsay the birthnight eve of eighteen. But mark me, you must
be separate from this horrid mother. Elna, which do you choose?

She threw herself hysterically upon his breast, sobbing

You!you! Ah, my poor mother! I see it all! there is no choice! Yours!
I am yours!for ever yours! She is good to me sometimes; but I know she
is badyou must shield me from her. But we will not go away at onceit
would kill her. Oh, my poor mother! my dear mother! this is hard! and
she shuddered, as she clasped him more closely in her arms, and sobbed
yet more wildly still.

Manton spoke in tender soothing to the gentle trembler, who continued,
amidst bursts of hysteric laughter, and smiles of stormy joy, to
moanPoor mother! how will she bear it?


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its intense emotionality and melodrama. The point of view is from Manton's perspective, and the tone is one of deep feeling and resolve. The language is also highly charged and dramatic, with a sense of foreboding and tragedy.