Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
It was a curious fight, and a furious fight.  At the time Archie and
his companion came in sight of the conflict, they had closed, and
were fencing with their horns with as much skill, apparently, as any
two men armed with foils could have displayed.  The main points to be
gained appeared to be to unlock or get out of touch of each other's
horns long enough to stab in neck and shoulder, and during the time
of being in touch to force back and gain ground.  Once during this
fight the younger bull backed his opponent right to the top of a
slight hill.  It was a supreme effort, and evidently made in the hope
that he would hurl him from a height at the other side.  But in this
he was disappointed; for the top was level, and the older one,
regaining strength, hurled his enemy down the hill again far more
quickly than he had come up.  Round and round, and from side to side,
the battle raged, till at long last the courage and strength of one
failed completely.  He suffered himself to be backed, and it was
evident was only waiting an opportunity to escape uncut and
unscathed.  This came at length, and he turned and, with a cry of
rage, dashed madly away to the forest.  The battle now became a
chase, and the whole herd, holloaing good luck to the victor, joined
in it.

As there was no more to be seen, Archie and Etheldene turned their
horses' heads homewards.

They had not ridden far, however, before the vanquished bull himself
hove in sight.  He was alone now, though still tearing off in a
panic, and moaning low and angrily to himself.

It was at this moment that what Archie considered a happy inspiration
took possession of our impulsive hero.  "Let us wait till he passes,"
he said, "and drive him before us to camp."

Easily said.  But how was it to be done?  They drew back within the
shadow of a tree, and the bull rushed past.  Then out pranced knight
Archie, cracking his stock whip.

The monster paused, and wheeling round tore up the ground with his
hoofs in a perfect agony of anger.

"What next?" he seemed to say to himself.  "It is bad enough to be
beaten before the herd; but I will have my revenge now."

The brute's roaring now was like the sound of a gong, hollow and
ringing, but dreadful to listen to.

Archie met him boldly enough, intending to cut him in the face as he
dashed past.  In his excitement he dug his spurs into Tell, and next
minute he was on the ground.  The bull rushed by, but speedily
wheeled, and came tearing back, sure now of blood in which to dip his
ugly hoofs.

Archie had scrambled up, and was near a tree when the infuriated
beast came down on the charge.  Even at this moment of supreme danger
Archie--he remembered this afterwards--could not help admiring the
excessively business-like way the animal came at him to break him up.
There was a terrible earnestness and a terrible satisfaction in his
face or eyes; call it what you like, there it was.

Near as Archie was to the tree, to reach and get round it was
impossible.  He made a movement to get at his revolver; but it was
too late to draw and fire, so at once he threw himself flat on the
ground.  The bull rushed over him, and came into collision with the
tree-trunk.  This confused him for a second or two, and Axchie had
time to regain his feet.  He looked wildly about for his horse.  Tell
was quietly looking on; he seemed to be waiting for his young master.
But Archie never would have reached the horse alive had not brave
Etheldene's whip not been flicked with painful force across the
bull's eyes.  That blow saved Archie, though the girl's horse was
wounded on the flank.

[Illustration: "Archie never would have reached the horse alive had
not brave Etheldene's whip been flicked with painful force across the
bull's eyes.  That blow saved Archie, though the girl's horse was
wounded on the flank."]

A minute after both were galloping speedily across the plain, all
danger over; for the bull was still rooting around the tree,
apparently thinking that his tormentors had vanished through the
earth.

"How best can I thank you?" Archie was saying.

"By saying nothing about it," was Etheldene's answer.

"But you have saved my life, child."

"A mere bagatelle, as father says," said this saucy Queensland
maiden, with an arch look at her companion.  But Archie did not look
arch as he put the next question.


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

- Two bulls fighting
- One bull is defeated and runs away
- The other bull chases after him
- Archie and Etheldene see this and follow
- Archie falls off his horse and the bull is about to attack him, but Etheldene saves him with her whip
- They all go back to camp