Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
After a while, he felt within himself the suggestion that there might be
something of interest in the hut where he had slept. He had not examined
it thoroughly; now that his eyes were so much less swollen, he felt that
that would be something to do; there might even be some book tossed
aside somewhere. He had seen no trace of a book in D. W.s hut.

In the furthest corner of his hut was a small rubbish heap. He pulled a
half-burnt piece of wood from his fireplace. With this, he began to poke
aside the rubbish, to see what he could find. The rubbish was of all
sorts, much the worse for having been in a corner of the hut into which
the rain had blown. He found these things:

Part of a canvas sack, into which the ants had worked.

A briar pipe, much used, which had a bleached look from exposure.

Part of a leather strop that had been cut through.

Three small twists of tough galvanised wire.

Four bits of old bootlace.

A broken strap.

A screw eye.

A paper, containing a mouldy empty cardboard box for Marchams Patent
Trouser Buttons, with the legend, No more sewing.

Most of a pair of drill riding breeks made in Taunton. The ants had been
in these. Two envelopes, or parts of envelopes.

A sodden little fat book, rather like a newly-drowned puppy.

He brought this book into the light, so that he might examine it. It
proved to be a dumpy volume of Miltons poems, complete in itself,
printed 1828 for J. Smith, Bookseller, 193, High Holborn, and bound in
green cloth boards. It opened at the frontispiece, of Milton from an
Impression of a Seal, opposite a vignette of Eve among some dahlias
beside a very wriggly snake. On the flyleaf of the book was an
inscription in faint ink in the handwriting of a woman:

To Dudley Wigmore,
from his Mother.   August 12th, 1881.

Dudley Wigmore, Hi said. D. W. . . . So that is the fellows name, is
it? It is an odd book for him to have. And he might have been a little
more careful of a gift from his mother, one would think.

The book was swollen and stuck together from being soaked; Hi opened it
in the sun, with great care. He knew little, certainly, about Milton,
except that he had written a poem called LAllegro, which Hi had had to
learn by heart some years before at his prep. school. I daresay Ill
like it better now, he said. Anyhow this is a book, and a very famous
book: there must be something in it. And it will be something to do to
try to dry it without pulling out the leaves.

After he had opened the book to dry, he went back to look at the rubbish
heap for more treasures. He found nothing more in that heap, except some
rags which the ants and grubs had riddled to pieces. He looked at the
two bits of envelope, both of which bore English stamps. On one of the
stamps part of the postmark could be made out when the paper was held to
the light. Hi read the name allet. He tried to think of some English
place with a name which ended in allet: he could think of none. It
sounds liker a French name, he thought. One of the pieces had been
addressed to

D. Wigm
C/o Messrs. W
Sant

The rest was torn off. The other, which was smaller, had only a bit of
the flap, the stamp, and the ends of an address, in a different hand,
thus:

 Esq.,
 et Cie.

Hi dropped the bits of paper on to the heap. Some of the leaves of the
Milton were now dry: he turned them, so that others might dry. Having
nothing else to do, he brought out the stools from his hut, rested the
book on one, sat on the other, and passed some hours, reading bits of
the poem as the leaves dried. The Indians looked at him with curiosity
and fear, thinking that he was practising magic. His mood and that place
gave the poetry a value which it had not held (for Hi) in the prep.
school. When my eyes are better, he thought, I will read this all
through. It is a wonderful thing.

The day passed thus hour by hour with no sign of the white man. Some
Indians who had come to the poblacion with cassava, brought out some
stew for Hi with a piece of hot bread, which he ate. Having eaten, he
brought the stools and the book into the hut where he had slept.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Hi finds a book in the hut he slept in and starts to read it. He finds some interesting things in the rubbish heap, including a piece of paper with a postmark from Allet, France. He reads some of the poem as the leaves dry and thinks it is a wonderful thing.