What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Two whole years passed by.  So quickly, too, because they had not
been idle years.  Quite the reverse of that, for every day brought
its own duties with it, and there was always something new to be
thought about or done.

One event had taken place which, in Bob's eyes, eclipsed all the
others--a little baby squatter saw the light of day.  But I should
not have used the word eclipsed.  Little "Putty-face," as Harry most
irreverently called her, did not eclipse anything; on the contrary,
everything grew brighter on her arrival, and she was hailed queen of
the station.  The news spread abroad like wildfire, and people came
from far and near to look at the wee thing, just as if a baby had
never been born in the Bush before.

Findlayson dug the child with his forefinger in the cheek, and nodded
and "a-goo-ed" to it, and it smiled back, and slobbered and grinned
and jumped.  Findlayson then declared it to be the wisest "wee vision
o' a thing the warld ever saw."  Sarah was delighted, so was the
nurse--a young sonsy Scotch lass brought to the station on purpose to
attend to baby.

"But," said Findlayson, "what about bapteezin' the blessed wee
vision."

"Oh," said Bob, "I've thought of that!  Craig and I are going to
Brisbane with stock, and we'll import a parson."

It so happened that a young missionary was on his way to spread the
glad tidings among the blacks, and it did not need much coaxing on
Bob's part to get him to make a detour, and spend a week at Burley
New Farm.  So this was the imported parson.

But being in Brisbane, Bob thought he must import something else,
which showed what a mindful father he was.

He had a look round, and a glance in at all the shop windows in Queen
Street, finally he entered an emporium that took his fancy.

"Ahem!" said Bob.  "I want a few toys."

"Yes, sir.  About what age, sir?"

"The newest and best you have."

"I didn't refer to the age of the toys," said the urbane shopkeeper,
with the ghost of a smile in his eye.  "I should have said, Toys
suitable for what age?"

"For every age," replied Bob boldly.

The shopkeeper then took the liberty of remarking that his visitor
must surely be blessed with a quiverful.

"I've only the one little girl," said Bob.  "She fills the book as
yet.  But, you see, we're far away in the Bush, and baby will grow
out of gum-rings and rattles, won't she, into dolls and dung-carts?
D' ye see?  D' ye understand?"

"Perfectly."

It ended in Bob importing not only the parson in a dray, but a box of
toys as big as a sea-chest, and only Bob himself could have told you
all that was in it.  That box would have stocked a toyshop itself and
Harry and Archie had the grandest of fun unpacking it, and both
laughed till they had to elevate their arms in the air to get the
stitches out of their sides.

The amusing part of it was that innocent Bob had bought such a lot of
each species.

A brown paper parcel, for example, was marked "1 gross: gum-rings."

"That was a job lot," said Bob, explaining.  "I got them at a
reduction, as the fellow said.  Besides, if she has one in each hand,
and another in her mouth, it will keep her out of mischief for a
month or two to begin with."

There was no mistake about it, baby was set up; for a time, at all
events.

Not only did visitors--rough and smooth, but mostly rough--come from
afar, but letters of congratulation also.  Winslow said in a letter
that Etheldene was dying to come and see "the vision," and so was he,
though not quite so bad.  "Only," he added, "as soon Eth is finished
we'll both run up.  Eth is going to Melbourne to be finished, and I
think a year will do the job."

"Whatever does he mean," said stalwart Bob, "by finishing Eth, and
doing the job?"


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the character of Bob and to establish the setting of the story. We learn that Bob is a mindful father and that he and his wife have recently had a baby. The scene also establishes the location as being in the Bush, far from any city.