Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Carlin looked. And he was puzzled, after a brief inspection of the
curious concentric construction of the beam-head.

"I don't get it. It looks like you have two circular beam-heads, one
inside the other."

"That," said Jonny, "is the secret of my scheme. Lowered pressure in
the solar surface at the point of suction creates a whirl, a Sun-spot.
But suppose we can suck up gases without lowering pressure?"

Carlin stared. "How?"

"The two beam-heads," reminded the lame youngster eagerly. "The inner
one is the one that beams down a positive magnetic pull to suck up
solar vapors. The outer one is designed to use a simultaneous negative
magnetism to shoot the unwanted vapors back down into the Sun."

The whole meaning of the explanation flashed over Carlin, and the
possibilities of it dawned across his brain.

He said nothing, but crawled under the towering dredge and for minutes
inspected inside and outside of the beam-head, feed-tubes and cut-offs.
He finally came back out to them.

"Well?" challenged Jonny Land.

Carlin bit his lip. "I've got to admit your scheme looks practical
enough. You should be able to suck up gases without any Sun-spotting
effect, by using that continuous kickback. But--"

"But what?" demanded Harb Land, frowning.

Carlin shook his head. "Blast it, I can't see why the Council would
turn down your petition if this is as workable as it seems."

Jonny shrugged. "I told you why. Control Council contains the finest
statesmen in the galaxy. Statesmen, not engineers. They admitted their
experts' reports on this showed it theoretically workable. But they
said it was too dangerous to take a chance on theory when it comes to
tampering with suns. We don't need copper that badly, they said."

His fists clenched in sudden passion. "We don't need copper! The galaxy
as a whole doesn't need it, they meant. And what does it matter if one
little world called Earth is fading and dying for lack of the copper
it squandered to open up the galaxy? What does it matter, except to
Earthmen?"

It was the first time that Carlin had ever seen Jonny Land give way to
emotion. The superhuman strain that drove and dominated this lame, thin
youngster for a moment flared hot and anguished on his face. Then his
narrow shoulders sagged. He stood looking at the towering dredge with
brooding eyes, before turning to Carlin.

"Carlin," he said then, "there's only one way to prove to the Council
this way of Sun-mining is safe--and that's by doing it! That's what
we're going to do. We're going to the Sun and come back with a shipload
of copper. They'll see then that it's wholly safe. They'll have to
give permission then. And a fleet of ships equipped with dredges can
suck enough copper from the Sun to give Earth all the power it needs
hereafter.

"You've seen the dredge and you know our plans. You've seen enough of
Earth to know how much our success would mean to this world. Carlin, do
you still want to tell Floring about this?"

"You couldn't!" exclaimed Harb Land harshly. "You couldn't destroy all
the hope that's left for our world's people. You--all you star-world
people--you owe this chance to Earth!"

Carlin stood there, torn by conflicting feelings. Strong among them was
his intense admiration as an engineer for the ingenuity and daring of
Jonny Land's solution to the problem.

But there were other things to consider. There was the duty he and
every citizen had to support the Control Council. That support was what
kept galactic civilization going. Yet these Earthmen, this little band
fighting so fiercely for their ancient, worn world would flout it.

"Jonny!" came Marn's sharp cry from outside. "Jonny!"

"Something's wrong!" Jonny exclaimed, limping hastily forward.

They hurried out into the sunlight. Marn was running toward them and at
the same moment they heard the drumming of an approaching ato-car.

"It's Ross Floring coming here!" Marn panted. "I recognized his car
coming up the hill!"

Harb uttered a fierce exclamation, but Jonny cut in quickly:


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Carlin: an engineer, he is torn by conflicting feelings
-Jonny Land: a young, disabled man who has designed a Sun-mining scheme; he is passionate and determined
-Harb Land: Jonny's father, he is protective and hopeful
-Marn: Jonny's sister, she is alert and quick-thinking