Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
Then Archie, instead of letting his thoughts dwell any longer on the
past, began at once to bridge over for himself the long period of
time that must elapse ere he should return to Burley Old Farm.  Of
course there would be changes.  He dared say Walton would be away;
but Elsie and Rupert would still be there, and his father and mother,
looking perhaps a little older, but still as happy.  And the burned
farm-steading would be restored, or if it were not, it soon should be
after he came back; for he would be rich, rolling in wealth in fact,
if half the stories he had heard of Australia were true, even
allowing that _all_ the streets were not paved with gold, and _all_
the houses not roofed with sparkling silver.

So engrossed was he with these pleasant thoughts, that he had not
observed the advent of a passenger who had entered the saloon, and
sat quietly down on a camp-stool near him.  A man of about forty,
dressed in a rough pilot suit of clothes, with a rosy weather-beaten
but pleasant face, and a few grey hairs in his short black beard.

He was looking at Archie intently when their eyes met, and the boy
felt somewhat abashed.  The passenger, however, did not remove his
glance instantly; he spoke instead.

"You've never been to sea before, have you?"

"No, sir; never been off the land till a week ago."

"Going to seek your fortune?"

"Yes; I'm going to make my fortune."

"Bravo!  I hope you will."

"What's to hinder me?"

"Nothing; oh, nothing much!  Everybody doesn't though.  But you seem
to have a bit of go in you."

"Are you going to make yours?" said Archie.

The stranger laughed.

"No," he replied.  "Unluckily, perhaps, mine was made for me.  I've
been out before too, and I'm going again to see things."

"You're going in quest of adventure?"

"I suppose that is really it.  That is how the story books put it,
anyhow.  But I don't expect to meet with adventures like Sinbad the
Sailor, you know; and I don't think I would like to have a little old
man of the sea with his little old legs round my neck."

"Australia is a very wonderful place, isn't it?"

"Yes; wonderfully wonderful.  Everything is upside-down there, you
know.  To begin with, the people walk with their heads downwards.
Some of the trees are as tall as the moon, and at certain seasons of
the year the bark comes tumbling off them like rolls of shoeleather.
Others are shaped like bottles, others again have heads of waving
grass, and others have ferns for tops.  There are trees, too, that
drop all their leaves to give the flowers a chance; and these are so
brilliantly red, and so numerous, that the forest where they grow
looks all on fire.  Well, many of the animals walk or jump on two
legs, instead of running on four.  Does that interest you?"

"Yes.  Tell me something more about birds."

"Well, ducks are everywhere in Australia, and many kinds are as big
as geese.  They seem to thrive.  And ages ago, it is said by the
natives, the moles in Australia got tired of living in the dark, and
held a meeting above-ground, and determined to live a different mode
of life.  So they grew longer claws, and short, broad, flat tails,
and bills like ducks, and took to the water, and have been happy ever
since.

"Well, there are black swans in abundance; and though it is two or
three years since I was out last, I cannot forget a beautiful bird,
something betwixt a pheasant and peacock, and the cock's tail is his
especial delight.  It is something really to be proud of, and at a
distance looks like a beautiful lyre, strings and all.  The cockatoos
swarm around the trees, and scream and laugh at the lyre-bird giving
himself airs, but I daresay this is all envy.  The hen bird is not a
beauty, but her chief delight is to watch the antics and attitudes of
her lord and master as he struts about making love and fun to her
time about, at one moment singing a kind of low, sweet song, at
another mocking every sound that is heard in the forest, every noise
made by man or bird or beast.  No wonder the female lyre-bird thinks
her lord the cleverest and most beautiful creature in the world!

"Then there is a daft-looking kingfisher, all head and bill, and
wondering eyes, who laughs like a jackass, and makes you laugh to
hear him laugh.  So loud does he laugh at times that his voice drowns
every other sound in the forest.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

A man and a boy are talking on a ship. The boy is going to Australia to make his fortune and the man is telling him about all the wonderful things he will see there. The man describes the upside-down world of Australia, where the people walk with their heads downwards and the animals walk on two legs. He also tells the boy about the different kinds of birds, including the black swans, the lyre-bird, and the kingfisher.