Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Curse that psychotherapist anyway! Why had he been crazy enough to
listen to the fellow? That smug, pink, blinking Arcturian had smiled as
gently as a well-bred pussy-cat as he told Carlin what his trouble was.

"Star-sick?" Carlin had flared. "What do you mean, star-sick? I've made
the trip to Algol ten times in the last three months."

The psychotherapist had nodded. "Yes. And that was nine times too many.
You've been overdoing it for a long time, Mr. Carlin."

Before Carlin could protest, the other man had referred to the dossier
on his desk.

"I have your record here. Born at Aldebaran four thirty years ago.
Graduated at twenty-two from Canopus University with the degree
of Cosmic Engineer. Worked since then establishing spaceports for
star-ship lines between Rigel, Sharak, Tibor, Algol and other stars."

The psychotherapist looked up gravely. "The point is that you've spent
fifty per cent of your time in the last eight years in star-ships. The
average has been seventy per cent since you took charge of establishing
the new Algol line. And that's too much time in space for any man. No
wonder you're star-sick."

"Blast it, I'm not star-sick!" Carlin exploded. "What kind of therapist
are you? I come here to have you treat a perfectly simple syndrome of
reflex-fatigue, and you tell me all this!"

The Arcturian shook his head wisely. "Your case was only simple on the
surface, Mr. Carlin. The hypnosis showed up your trouble unmistakably.
Want to hear the record?"

Carlin heard it. And it wasn't pretty. Not pretty, to hear his
hypnosis-freed subconscious yelling out a frantic hatred of space and
star-ships and everything connected with them.

"You see?" said the Arcturian gently. "This has been building up in you
for a long time."

Carlin was stunned. He had known of other men who had got star-sick and
had had to drop their work and quit traveling space for a while. Other
men--but he'd always laughed contemptuously at them for it.

The psychos might declare that it was perfectly natural for a man to
develop a subconscious aversion to space if he crowded his work, but
the hard-bitten engineers of Carlin's set believed that a star-sick man
was nine times in ten a shirker. And now he himself was told he was
star-sick.

"You've got to quit work and stay out of space for a while," the
Arcturian therapist told him.

Carlin felt sick at heart. "Then all my work in building up the Algol
line will go into young Brewer's hands."

Still, he thought after a moment, it might not be so bad. Working in
his line's main offices here on Canopus Two, he could keep in touch.
And he would have more time here with Nila.

But the psychotherapist shook his head quite decisively at that.

"No, Mr. Carlin. Your case is too dangerous for that. Your subconscious
is twisted into a knot that is going to be hard to untie." He hesitated
a moment as though he knew what reaction his next words would provoke.
"In fact, there's only one way in which you can be normalized. That's
the Earth-treatment."

"Earth-treatment?" Carlin didn't even know what it meant. "You mean,
some treatment that has reference to the old planet over on the other
side of the galaxy?"

The Arcturian nodded. "Yes, our ancestral planet Earth. Where all our
race came from, two thousand years ago. Where you're going back to, for
perhaps a year."

Carlin was knocked breathless by that calm statement.

"Me going to Earth for a year? Are you crazy? Why should I go there?"

"Because," the therapist said soberly, "if you don't I'm afraid you
won't last another six months as a star-line man."

"But why can't I take a rest right here on Canopus Two?" Carlin
demanded heatedly. "Why send me to that moldering, forgotten old planet
where there's nothing now but a few historical monuments?"

"You've never been to Earth, I take it?" the psychotherapist asked
thoughtfully.

Carlin made an impatient gesture. "I'm not interested in ancient
history. That part of the galaxy is all a backwater."


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

- Carlin: protagonist, star-line man suffering from star-sickness
- Arcturian psychotherapist: treating Carlin for his star-sickness
- Nila: Carlin's girlfriend