What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
He heard a colloquy between Kent and Holmes, far away in the lunar
mountains. They were evidently climbing somewhere, and part of the
climb necessarily took them through deep shadow, where the temperature
of the rock was down to night temperature. Their space suits could
handle the cold for a certain length of time, but the teeth of one of
the men were chattering before he came out into sunlight at the end of
the climb.

McCauley heard Holmes say sarcastically:

"I needed that last pull. Want me to thank you for it?"

Kent's voice snapped as he answered Holmes.

"I did it solely because McCauley would court-martial me if I came in
alone!"

A pause, then the remote, transmitted sound of space shoes on stone.
Holmes spoke.

"There's a way I can kill you easily. All I need do is get myself
killed."

He laughed without mirth, and Kent said bitterly, "Go ahea--" Then
there was silence.

The communications officer brought McCauley a message from Lunar Base
congratulating Grimaldi Base for completing the communications link
between the two hemispheres of the moon.

"All right. Forget it," McCauley said.

He continued to listen. An hour went by. Then, without warning, there
came an explosive "Look out!" There was a crash and then panting.
Kent's voice rasped, "Have you gotten killed?" Holmes answered through
clenched teeth. "Not yet. But how will I get out of here?" More
clankings; more words, painstakingly devoid of solicitude on the one
hand, or any amiable emotion such as gratitude on the other. McCauley
could visualize exactly what was going on from the words. Holmes had
fallen into a pothole, one of innumerable such mantraps scattered at
random everywhere.

Kent got him out. Holmes grunted to indicate that he could do without
more help. That was that. Minutes later, McCauley heard Kent say dourly:

"Three hours to Repeater One? We're over three hours now. How's your
air?"

"All right," Holmes snapped. "When we get to that level place, we'll
split the extra tank."

McCauley fretted. He could not know how far or how fast the two men
were moving, off in that deadly waste of obstacles. Three hours had
seemed a fair estimate. But plainly they'd had trouble.

Their voices cut off before they reached a spot where they could divide
the air in the tank that had to be shared.

Then silence, for a long, long time. When McCauley heard any sound
again, it was Holmes angrily calling to Kent, demanding that he say
whether he needed help or not. And then for a full half hour McCauley
listened to the sharp-voiced, sometimes abusive exchanges between the
two. Kent had touched the keystone of an unstable rock slope. It gave
way under him and went whirling downward in one of those infrequent,
slow-motion moon avalanches that are unimaginable until one has seen
them. Kent checked himself on the edge of a precipice over which the
rolling stones fell in utter silence until after tens of seconds they
struck and split, still noiselessly.

He could not get away. It was dangerous to help him, lest another
avalanche be started. McCauley, listening, sweated as he glanced at a
clock. But Holmes was helping Kent.

Later--much later--he heard clatterings and Kent's voice said
snappishly:

"Well, here's Repeater One. McCauley said to come here. What do we do
now? I've air for fifteen minutes more."

Holmes tried to speak, but couldn't. There were clankings.

"Doggone you," Kent snarled shrilly, "you cheated on the air! You
didn't split even! Cripes!"

Then he panted, and suddenly there was a hissing sound, and gasps.
McCauley's hands were tightly clenched as the sounds came to him from
both faraway space-suit microphones. But at the hissing sound he
relaxed.

A little later Holmes' voice came, astonished.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the reader the difficult conditions that the characters are facing on the moon. The author also achieves the goal of creating suspense and tension by having the characters face life-threatening challenges.