What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
V
A LUNAR STORM

Shortly after we arrived at the village, they took away our watches, our
pocket-knives, and everything that we possessed of a similar nature, and
which they considered as curiosities. The chief wore Orthis wristwatch
above one fore-paw and mine above the other, but as he did not know how
to wind them, nor the purpose for which they were intended, they did him
or us no good. The result was, however, that it was now entirely
impossible for us to measure time in any way, and I do not know, even to
this day, how long we were in this strange village. We ate when we were
hungry, and slept when we were tired. It was always daylight; and it
seemed that there were always raiding parties going out or returning, so
that flesh was plentiful, and we became rather reconciled to our fate,
in so far as the immediate danger of being eaten was concerned, but why
they kept us alive, as we had slain so many of their fellows, I could
not understand.

It must have been immediately after we arrived that they made an attempt
to teach us their language. Two females were detailed for this duty. We
were given unlimited freedom within certain bounds, which were well
indicated by the several sentries which constantly watched from the
summit of hills surrounding the village. Past these we could not go, nor
do I know that we had any particular desire to do so, since we realized
only too well that there would be little chance of our regaining the
ship should we escape the village, inasmuch as we had not the remotest
idea in what direction it lay.

Our one hope lay in learning their language, and then utilizing our
knowledge in acquiring some definite information as to the surrounding
country and the location of _The Barsoom_.

It did not seem to take us very long to learn their tongue, though, of
course, I realize that it may really have been months. Almost before we
knew it, we were conversing freely with our captors. When I say freely,
it is possible that I exaggerate a trifle, for though we could
understand them fairly well, it was with difficulty that we made
ourselves understood, yet we managed it some way, handicapped as we were
by the peculiarities of the most remarkable language of which I have any
knowledge.

It is a very difficult language to speak, and as a written language,
would be practically impossible. For example, there is their word
_gu-e-ho_, for which Orthis and I discovered twenty-seven separate and
distinct meanings, and that there are others I have little or no doubt.
Their speech is more aptly described as song, the meaning of each
syllable being governed by the note in which it is sung. They speak in
five notes, which we may describe as A, B, C, D and E. _Gu_ sung in A
means something radically different from _gu_ sung in E, and again if
_gu_ is sung in A, followed by _e_ in G, it means something other than
if _gu_ had been sung in D followed by _e_ in A.

Fortunately for us, there are no words of over three syllables, and most
of them consist of only one or two, or we should have been entirely
lost. The resulting speech, however, is extremely beautiful, and Orthis
used to say that if he closed his eyes, he could imagine himself living
constantly in grand opera.

The chiefs name, as we learned, was Ga-va-go; the name of the tribe or
village was No-vans, while the race to which they belonged was known as
Va-gas.

When I felt that I had mastered the language sufficiently well to make
myself at least partially understood, I asked to speak to Ga-va-go, and
shortly thereafter, I was taken to him.

You have learned our speech? he asked.

I nodded in the affirmative. I have, I said, and I have come to ask
why we are held captives and what you intend to do with us. We did not
come to seek a quarrel with you. We wish only to be friends, and to be
allowed to go our way in peace.

What manner of creature are you, he asked, and where do you come
from?

I asked him if he had ever heard of the Sun or the stars or the other
planets or any worlds outside his own, and he replied that he had not,
and that there were no such things.

But there are, Ga-va-go, I said, and I and my companion are from
another world, far, far outside your own. An accident brought us here.
Give us back our weapons, and let us go.

He shook his head negatively.

Where you come from, do you eat one another? he asked.

No, I replied, we do not.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish communication between the protagonist and the chief of the village in which he is being held captive. The author achieves this by having the protagonist learn the language of the village and then use it to ask the chief questions about why they are being held captive and what the chief plans to do with them.