Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
I was mistaken. She stopped on the edge of the rock and made me a sign
to move back.

I obeyed mechanically and saw her seat herself upon a marble dolphin,
which at once began to roar in a genuine fashion; then suddenly all
these hydraulic voices increased like a tempest and formed a truly
diabolical concert around her.

I began to be somewhat unnerved when a ghostly greenish light, which
seemed but a more brilliant moonbeam burst from I knew not where,
distinctly revealing the features of the living naiad, so like those of
the statue that I had to look twice in order to assure myself that it
had not quitted its rocky chair of state.

Then, no longer seeking to unravel this mystery without any desire to
comprehend it, I became dumbly intoxicated with the supernatural beauty
of this apparition. The effect that it produced upon me was so absolute,
that I never even thought of approaching it, in order to assure myself
of its immateriality, as I had done before when it had appeared in my
room.

And had I entertained such an idea, which I am altogether unconscious of
doing, the fear of causing it to vanish by an audacious curiosity
probably withheld me.

How did it happen that I was not overcome by the desire of verifying the
evidence of my senses? Twas in truth the influence of the sublime
naiad, with clear and living eyes, beaming with a fascinating sweetness,
the naiad, with undraped arms, contours of transparent flesh and supple
motions resembling those of childhood. This daughter of Heaven seemed at
the utmost about fifteen years old. The ensemble of her figure expressed
the perfect chastity of youth, while the charm of a mature womanly soul
illuminated her features.

Her peculiar attire was precisely that of the naiad; a robe or floating
tunic, made of some indescribable and marvellous tissue whose soft folds
seemed wet and clinging; an exquisitely wrought diadem, and showers of
pearls were entwined in her magnificent hair, with that mixture of
peculiar luxury and happy caprice which characterizes the taste of the
renaissance; in singular and charming contrast to the altogether simple
garment, and which evinced its richness only in the easy grace of its
arrangement and the minute finish of the jewels, and delicate details of
the coiffure.

I could have gone on looking at her all my life, without dreaming of
addressing her. I did not observe the silence that had succeeded to the
roar of the fountain, I do not even know whether I stood gazing at her
for a moment or for an hour. It seemed to me of a suddenas if I had
always seen her, always known herit was, perhaps, because I was living
a century in a moments space.

She was the first to speak. I heard but could not understand all at
once, for the silvery tones of her voice, like her supernatural beauty,
served to complete the illusion.

I listened as if to music, without seeking to attach any particular
sense to her words.

At last I made an effort to shake off this stupor and heard her ask if I
could see her. I know not what I answered, for she added:

Under what guise dost thou behold me?

It was only then that I remarked she addressed me as thou. I felt
myself drawn to reply in the same fashion, for if she spoke to me _en
reine_, I addressed her as a divinity.

I see thee, I replied, as a being to whom naught upon this earth can
compare.

It seemed to me that she blushed, for my eyes were becoming accustomed
to the sea-green light which inundated her figure. I beheld her, white
as a lily, with the fresh tint of youth upon her cheek, a melancholy
smile added to her charms.

What do you see extraordinary in me? said she.

Beauty, I replied, briefly. I was too much moved to add more.

My beauty, answered she, is an effect of the imagination; for it does
not exist in a form that thou canst appreciate. All that is here of me
is my mind. Address me then as a soul and not as a woman. About what did
you wish me to advise you?

I no longer remember.

And the cause of this forgetfulness?

Is thy presence.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

- protagonist: male, young, transfixed by the beauty of a naiad
- the naiad: female, otherworldly creature, beautiful, ethereal