What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
He raised his head and looked at the painting, and the tree still
glowed softly with its inner light, and from within it came a sound, a
faint thudding sound, the sound of running feet.

The shout came again and the man was running down the path inside the
painting. A man who ran and waved his arms and shouted.

The man was Nevin.

Nevin was in the painting, running down the path, his padding feet
raising little puffs of dust along the pebbled path.

West raised the pistol and his hand was trembling so that the muzzle
weaved back and forth and then described a circle.

"Buck fever," said West.

He said it through chattering teeth.

For now he knew ... no he knew the answer.

He put up his other hand and grasped the wrist of the hand that held
the gun and the muzzle steadied. West gritted his teeth together to
stop their chattering.

His thumb went down against the activator and held it there and the
flame from the gun's muzzle spat out and mushroomed upon the painting.
Mushroomed until the entire canvas was a maelstrom of blue brilliance
that hissed and roared and licked with hungry tongues.

Slowly the tree ran together, as if one's eyes might have blurred and
gone slightly out of focus. The landscape dimmed and jigged and ran in
little wavering lines. And through the wavering lines could be seen a
twisted and distorted man whose mouth seemed open in a howl of rage.
But there was no sound of howling, just the purring of the gun.

With a tired little puff the mushrooming brilliance and the painting
were gone and the gun's pencil of flame was hissing through an empty
steel frame still filled with tiny glowing wires, spattering against
the wall behind it.

West lifted his thumb and silence clamped down upon him, clamped down
and held the room ... as it held leagues of space stretching on all
sides.

"No painting," said West.

An echo seemed to run all around the room.

"No painting," the echo said, but West knew it was no echo, just his
brain clicking off endlessly the words his lips had said.

"No painting," the echo said, but West was in some other world,
some other place, some _otherwhere_. A machine that broke down the
spacetime continuum or whatever it was that separated Man's universe
from other, stranger universes.

No wonder the fruit upon the tree had looked like the fruit upon the
table. No wonder he had thought that he heard the wind in the leaves.

West stood up and moved to the wall behind him. He found a tumbler and
thumbed it up and the lights came on.

In the light the smashed other-world machine was a sagging piece of
wreckage. Cartwright's body lay in the center of the room. A chittering
thing ran across the floor and ducked into the dark beneath a table. A
grinning face peeped out from behind a chair and squalled at West in
cold-boned savagery.

And it was nothing new, for he had seen those faces before. Pictures of
them in old books and in magazines that published tales of soul-shaking
horror, tales of things that come from beyond, of entities that broke
in from outside.

[Illustration: He had seen those faces before ... things that came from
beyond, entities that broke in from the outside....]

Just tales to send one shivering to bed. Just stories that should not
be read at midnight. Stories that made one a little nervous when a tree
squeaked in the wind outside the window or the rain walked along the
shingles.

It had taken the wizardry of the Solar System's best band of scientists
to open the door that led into the world beyond.

And yet people in unknown, savage ages had talked of things like
these ... of goblin and incubus and imp. Perhaps men in Atlantis might
have found the way, even as Nevin and Cartwright had found the way. In
that long-gone day letting loose upon the world a flood of things that
for ages after had lived in chimney-corner stories to chill one to the
marrow.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to reveal the true nature of the machine that West has been using. Up until this point, West has been under the impression that the machine simply allows him to travel to different places in time and space. However, the author reveals that the machine actually opens a door to another universe, one that is inhabited by monsters. This revelation is meant to shock and terrify the reader.