Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
"_TEN TO-MORROW, ARCHIE._"

"So you'll be ten years old to-morrow, Archie?"

"Yes, father; ten to-morrow.  Quite old, isn't it?  I'll soon be a
man, dad.  Won't it be fun, just?"

His father laughed, simply because Archie laughed.

"I don't know about the fun of it," he said; "for, Archie lad, your
growing a man will result in my getting old.  Don't you see?"

Archie turned his handsome brown face towards the fire, and gazed at
it--or rather into it--for a few moments thoughtfully.  Then he gave
his head a little negative kind of a shake, and, still looking
towards the fire as if addressing it, replied:

"No, no, no; I don't see it.  Other boys' fathers may grow old; mine
won't, mine couldn't, never, never."

"Dad," said a voice from the corner.  It was a very weary, rather
feeble, voice.  The owner of it occupied a kind of invalid couch, on
which he half sat and half reclined--a lad of only nine years, with a
thin, pale, old-fashioned face, and big, dark, dreamy eyes that
seemed to look you through and through as you talked to him.

"Dad."

"Yes, my dear."

"Wouldn't you like to be old really?"

"Well----," the father was beginning.

"Oh," the boy went on, "I should dearly love to be old, very old, and
very wise, like one of these!"  Here his glance reverted to a
story-book he had been reading, and which now lay on his lap.

His father and mother were used to the boy's odd remarks.  Both
parents sat here to-night, and both looked at him with a sort of fond
pity; but the child's eyes had half closed, and presently he dropped
out of the conversation, and to all intents and purposes out of the
company.

"Yes," said Archie, "ten is terribly old, I know; but is it quite a
man though?  Because mummie there said, that when Solomon became a
man, he thought, and spoke, and did everything manly, and put away
all his boy's things.  I shouldn't like to put away my bow and
arrow--what say, mum?  I shan't be altogether quite a man to-morrow,
shall I?"

"No, child.  Who put that in your head?"

"Oh, Rupert, of course!  Rupert tells me everything, and dreams such
strange dreams for me."

"You're a strange boy yourself, Archie."

His mother had been leaning back in her chair.  She now slowly
resumed her knitting.  The firelight fell on her face: it was still
young, still beautiful--for the lady was but little over thirty--yet
a shade of melancholy had overspread it to-night.

The firelight came from huge logs of wood, mingled with large pieces
of blazing coals and masses of half-incandescent peat.  A more
cheerful fire surely never before burned on a hearth.  It seemed to
take a pride in being cheerful, and in making all sorts of pleasant
noises and splutterings.  There had been bark on those logs when
first heaped on, and long white bunches of lichen, that looked like
old men's beards; but tongues of fire from the bubbling, caking coals
had soon licked those off, so that both sticks and peat were soon
aglow, and the whole looked as glorious as an autumn sunset.

And firelight surely never before fell on cosier room, nor on cosier
old-world furniture.  Dark pictures, in great gilt frames, hung on
the walls, almost hiding it; dark pictures, but with bright colours
standing out in them, which Time himself had not been able to dim;
albeit he had cracked the varnish.  Pictures you could look
into--look in through almost--and imagine figures that perhaps were
not in them at all; pictures of old-fashioned places, with quaint,
old-fashioned people and animals; pictures in which every creature or
human being looked contented and happy.  Pictures from masters' hands
many of them, and worth far more than their weight in solid gold.

And the firelight fell on curious brackets, and on a tall
corner-cabinet filled with old delf and china; fell on high,
narrow-backed chairs, and on one huge carved-oak chest that took your
mind away back to centuries long gone by and made you half believe
that there must have been "giants in those days."


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Archie: a ten-year-old boy, handsome with brown hair and eyes
-Archie's father: laughing
-Archie's mother: knitting by the fire, young and beautiful with a melancholy air
-Rupert: a boy of nine years old, thin and pale with big dark eyes, lying on an invalid couch in the corner
-Solomon: mentioned as an example of a manly boy