Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
A single ray of light made a yellow bar upon the open space in front.

Nearer and nearer came the racket of galloping horses--the jingling
of bits and scabbards--the hoarse shout of a man's voice, and into
the lit space plunged a powerful roan horse all dirty grey with foam
and spent mud.  Upon its back there sat a young man rocking with
fatigue and with his head uncovered and his coat opened to the night
wind.  The old man standing in the doorway shuffled forward a step
and laid a hand upon his bridle-reins.

"Who are ye?" he asked in a shrill querulous voice, "and what news do
you bring?"

For a long time there was no reply, and in the silence the candle in
the old man's hand fluttered desperately and went out.

"I am the Prince," said the man upon the horse in a dull voice as
though he were half dreaming, "I am the Prince and..." his voice
trailed into silence.

[Illustration: "I AM THE PRINCE," SAID THE MAN UPON THE HORSE.]

Round him in a half-circle the companions of that wild flight were
gathered--their faces looking very dim and white like the faces of
ghosts.  For an instant the old man seemed to shrink into himself.
His great head drooped,--the hand that gripped the bridle fell with a
low thud against his side.  But only for an instant.  There was
within that disease-racked body an energy that defied the penalties
of age.

"Dhia gleidh sinn," he cried harshly, "are you tongueless all of you?
Come--come in--would you sit glooming there all night?  Your
Highness," he said, breaking off and looking up again, "this is a wae
meeting and like to be our last...."

"You are Lord Lovat," said the Prince with more life in his voice.

"It is a name," the old man replied, with a sudden twisted grin,
"that I would I could disown."

A few gillies had gathered about the horsemen, and when they had
dismounted their tired beasts were led away to an outhouse, and the
whole party followed Lord Lovat within.

Inside the room where they made their way a great fire was burning.
A table stood in the centre, upon which was a bottle of claret and
some glasses.  He had waited news for hours back.

In the firelight Lord Lovat regarded his visitors with sour
displeasure.  Now that the news of Culloden had come, and the first
biting terror over, he resumed his habitual demeanour of inscrutable
cynicism.  He congratulated the Prince on arriving so soon, and
poured out his glass of wine--he asked the names of the various
gentlemen with him and expressed polite ignorance when he was
informed, only remarking that he had always admired Irishmen because
they took so much interest in other people's affairs.  And all the
time he was cursing his utter folly for having supported the Jacobite
cause and plotting, plotting, plotting in his inmost mind what was
the safest course to take.

Only once did his self-possession desert him, and that was when the
Prince said to Sir Thomas Sheridan that they must make for the Isles.

"Make for the Isles," he cried, glaring at them like an aged
wolf-hound, "what sort of talk is that?  Will you desert us all and
not make a stand in the hills?  What is one defeat?  You must make
terms, sir, or you'll have more to answer for than ever your father
had."

"It is no good," replied the Prince dejectedly.

"Oh, why," cried Lovat, trembling with fury and vexation, "did ye
come and ruin us at all?"

At that they tried to soothe him, telling him that he had taken no
part--that he was an old man--that he could hide for a season.  To
all of which Lovat shook his great head.  He never deceived himself.

"More than that," went on the Irishman, Sheridan, pacing up and down
before the open window, "all is not lost.  The clans will assemble
again, and French gold is even now on its way.  Gold," he added,
"will unite us again as quick as honour."

He smiled, little guessing how far he erred in that while Lovat
listened absently.

"French gold," he repeated, "and how can they land gold now?"

"They make for Lochnanuagh," replied Sheridan, "and...." but the
Prince broke in:


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very formal and old-fashioned. It is written in third person point of view, with a focus on the conversation between the Prince and Lord Lovat. The tone is one of despair and defeat, with a hint of hope for the future.