Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
VIII.

_THE STREAM OF LIFE FLOWS QUIETLY ON._

One day a grand gift arrived from England, being nothing less than a
couple of splendid Scotch collies and a pair of Skye terriers.  They
had borne the journey wonderfully well, and set about taking stock,
and settling themselves in their new home, at once.

Archie's pet kangaroo was an object of great curiosity to the Skyes
at first.  On the very second day of their arrival Bobie and Roup, as
they were called, marched up to the kangaroo, and thus addressed him:

"We have both come to the conclusion that you are something that
shouldn't be."

"Indeed!" said the kangaroo.

"Yes; so we're going to let the sawdust out of you."

"Take that then to begin with!" said Mr. Kangaroo; and one of the
dogs was kicked clean and clear over a fern bush.

They drew off after that with their tails well down.  They thought
they had made a mistake somehow.  A rabbit that could kick like a
young colt was best left to his own devices.

The collies never attempted to attack the kangaroo; but when they saw
the droll creature hopping solemnly after Archie, one looked at the
other, and both seemed to laugh inwardly.

The collies were placed under the charge of Craig to be broken to
use, for both were young, and the Skyes became the vermin-killers.
They worked in couple, and kept down the rats far more effectually
than ever the cats had done.  They used to put dingoes to the rout
whenever or wherever they saw them; and as sometimes both these game
little animals would return of a morning severely bitten about the
face and ears, it was evident enough they had gone in for sharp
service during the night.

One curious thing about the Skyes was, that they killed snakes, and
always came dragging home with the loathsome things.  This was very
clever and very plucky; nevertheless, a tame laughing-jackass that
Harry had in a huge cage was to them a pet aversion.  Perhaps the
bird knew that; for as soon as he saw them he used to give vent to a
series of wild, defiant "ha-ha-ha's" and "hee-hee-hee's" that would
have laid a ghost.

The improvements on that portion of Burley New Farm more immediately
adjoining the steading had gone merrily on, and in a year or two,
after fencing and clearing the land, a rough style of agriculture was
commenced.  The ploughs were not very first-class, and the horses
were oxen--if I may make an Irish bull.  They did the work slowly but
well.  They had a notion that every now and then they ought to be
allowed to go to sleep for five minutes.  However, they were easily
roused, and just went on again in a dreamy kind of way.

The land did not require much coaxing to send up crops of splendid
wheat.  It was a new-born joy to Bob and Archie to ride along their
paddocks, and see the wind waving over the growing grain, making the
whole field look like an inland sea.

"What would your father say to a sight like that?" said Bob one
morning while the two were on their rounds.

"He would start subsoiling ploughs and improve it."

"I don't know about the improvement, Archie, but I've no doubt he
would try.  But new land needs little improving."

"Maybe no; but mind you, Bob, father is precious clever, though I
don't hold with all his ways.  He'd have steam-ploughs here, and
steam-harrows too.  He'd cut down the grain to the roots by
steam-machines, or he'd have steam-strippers."

"But you don't think we should go any faster?"

"Bob, I must confess I like to take big jumps myself.  I take after
my father in some things, but after my Scottish ancestors in others.
For instance, I like to know what lies at the other side of the hedge
before I put my horse at it."

The first crops of wheat that were taken off the lands of Burley New
Farm were gathered without much straw.  It seemed a waste to burn the
latter; but the distance from the railway, and still more from a
market-town, made its destruction a necessity.

Nor was it altogether destruction either; for the ashes served as a
fertilizer for future crops.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is light-hearted and humorous. It is told from an omniscient third person point of view, and the tone is playful and friendly.