Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
In the darkness of the cross roads a mounted policeman, drawn into the
shadows, watched them approach without making a sign. When they were
within a few yards of him he put his horse suddenly across their path.

Its all right. Im English, Hi said.

The man seemed to have orders not to molest foreigners. He drew his
horse back and jerked with his hand for them to pass. Perhaps it was a
guilty conscience which made them think that he stared hard at Rosa.
Anyhow he let them pass.

On the water-front the tide of life had begun to flow to the quays. Men
and women were going to work that had to be done, whatever rebellion
came. They saw the bright light at the pier end.

Its there, Rosa whispered, that the market-boats come.

Two men who were slouching in front of them paused to light cigarettes.
They watched Hi and Rosa as they passed and made remarks evidently very
offensive, which made Rosa catch her breath.

Come on. Dont stop, Rosa whispered.

Colour was all over the eastern heaven and touching the upper roofs and
spires.

Hi, Rosa said, when they had gone a little distance, we shall never
be able to do it. I am seen to be a woman and there is a patrol in the
streets stopping people.

Where?

There in front.

About a hundred yards in front of them there was an interruption in the
flow of people. They could see the gleam of helmets beyond the blackness
of the crowd, which grew greater as men and women flocked up to it.
Plainly the police or troops were examining all who were going that way.

Hi, Rosa said, I cant face the police in this dress. Its very
silly, but I shall faint.

Hold up, Hi said. It will be perfectly all right. We will get down to
that barge on the beach there and you can pin your cloak round you for a
skirt.

Within a stones throw from the water-front was a green barge, which Hi
had noticed on the day of his landing. She was lying on her bilge with
the butts of her timbers sticking out like bones. In the shelter of this
wreck Rosa pinned her cloak as a skirt and made her hat look less manly.
After this they marched into the crowd, which closed up behind them as
others arrived. It was a silent crowd of men and women not fully awake.
One or two voices asked, What are they stopping us for? Some said,
Dogana, or Search of suspects, or Search of the accursed Whites,
the murderers.

The light grew upon the faces at each instant, the crowd gathered and
the delay continued.

What are they stopping us for?

Close up, brothers.

Who are you shoving?

Its not me thats shoving.

This way for the harem. Get your money ready.

The whistle will be gone. We shall be fined half a peseta.

What are they stopping us for?

No one could answer that question.

Hi could make out that several times a minute one or two people in front
were allowed to pass on. At every such passing the crowd surged forward
till they were all jammed up together, feeling breathless and inclined
to faint. They could hear a kind of catechism going on at the barrier,
voices bullying and voices submissive.

Why cant they let us pass? What are they asking?

The crowd was not to know why they were stopped. After they had annoyed
some hundreds of people with it, the police suddenly removed the barrier
and told the people that they might get along out of it. The crowd
slowly surged forward among growls of Keeping us waiting all this time
and in the end they didnt want us. Now we shall be fined a peseta for
being late.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person omniscient, and the tone is one of anxiety and fear.