Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
A guard loafed before the door that led to the trail in front of the
tent. It was composed of five or six men. I suppose there were others in
some nearby chamber. The doorway through which we peered was in shadow.
I pushed it open far enough to admit our bodies and we slipped through.
In an instant we were hidden from the sight of the guard, among the
horses. Some of them moved restlessly as we approached them. If I could
but find Red Lightning! I had searched along one line almost the full
length of the chamber and had started along a second when I heard a low
nicker close by. It was he! Love of The Flag! It was like finding my own
brother.

In the slovenly manner of the Kalkars, the saddles and bridles lay in
the dirt in the aisle behind the horses. Fortunately I found my own,
more easily, of course, because it is unlike those of the Kalkars, and
while I slipped them quietly upon Red Lightning, the Or-tis, selecting a
mount haphazard, was saddling and bridling it.

After a whispered consultation, we led our horses to the rear of the
room and mounted among the shadows, unobserved by the guard. Then we
rode out from behind the picket lines and moved slowly toward the
entrance, talking and laughing in what we hoped might appear an
unconcerned manner, the Or-tis riding on the side nearer the guard and a
little in advance, that Red Lightning might be hidden from them, for we
thought that they might recognize him more quickly than they would us.

As they saw us coming they ceased their chatter and looked up, but we
paid no attention to them, riding straight on for the aperture that led
into the trail outside the structure. I think we might have passed them
without question had there not suddenly burst from the doorway of what
was, I judge, the guard-room, an excited figure who shouted lustily to
all within hearing of his voice.

Let no one leave! The Julian and the Or-tis have escaped! he screamed.

The guard threw themselves across the entrance and at the same instant I
put spurs to Red Lightning, whipped out my sword, and bore down upon
them, the Or-tis following my example. I cut at one upon my left front
and Red Lightning bore down another beneath his iron hoofs. We were out
upon the trail and the Or-tis was beside us. Reining to the left we bore
south a few yards and then turned west upon another trail, the shouts
and curses of the Kalkars ringing in our ears.

With free rein we let our mounts out to far greater speed than the
darkness and the littered trail gave warrant, and it was not until we
had put a mile behind us that we drew in to a slower gait. The Or-tis
spurred to my side.

I had not thought it could be done, Julian, he said; yet here we
ride, as free as any men in all the country wide.

But still within the shadow of The Butcher, I replied. Listen! They
are following hot-foot. The pounding of the hoofs of our pursuers
horses rose louder and louder behind us as we listened. Again we spurred
on, but presently we came to a place where a ruined wall had fallen
across the trail.

May The Butcher get me! cried the Or-tis, that I should have
forgotten that this trail is blocked. We should have turned north or
south at the last crossing. Come, we must ride back quickly, if we are
to reach it before they.

Wheeling, we put our mounts to the run back along the trail over which
we had but just come. It was but a short distance to the cross trail,
yet our case looked bad, for even in the darkness the pursuing Kalkars
could now be seen, so close were they. It was a question as to which
would reach the crossing first.

You turn to the south, I cried to the Or-tis, and I will turn to the
north. In that way one of us may escape.

Good! he agreed; there are too many of them for us to stand and
fight.

He was rightthe trail was packed with them, and we could hear others
coming far behind the van. It was like a young army. I hugged the left
hand side of the trail and Or-tis the right. We reached the crossing not
a second in advance of the leaders of the pursuit and Or-tis turned to
the south and I to the north. Into the blackness of the new trail I
plunged and behind me came the Kalkars. I urged Red Lightning on and he
responded as I knew he would. It was madness to ride through the black
night along a strange trail at such speed, yet it was my only hope.
Quickly my fleet stallion drew away from the clumsy, ill-bred mounts of
my pursuers. At the first crossing I turned again to the west and though
here I encountered a steep and winding hill it was fortunately but a
short ride to the top and after that the way was along a rolling trail,
but mostly down hill.

The structures of the ancients that remained standing became fewer and
fewer as we proceeded and in an hour they had entirely disappeared. The
trail, however, was fairly well marked and after a single, short turn to
the south it continued westward over rolling country in almost a
straight line.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a touch of humor. The point of view is third person omniscient. The tone is adventurous.