Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
"One day in February, 1909, when I was just on twenty, I was shooting
duck from a boat in a branch of the Volga when I saw on the bank Papa's
favourite Cossack signalling wildly with his cap on the end of his
sabre.

"He was shouting as well, though I couldn't hear him. I gathered that
something must have happened at home, but I wanted to appear indifferent
in spite of my burning curiosity to know what all the fuss was about. I
only put in to the bank an hour later, when the poor man was almost dead
with waving his arms and shouting so much. He told me the Prince wanted
me in his study. I took as long as I could getting there, anticipating a
good lecture.

"I got nothing of the kind. Papa seemed radiant about something. He
kissed me, then, showing me a large envelope with red seals on his
bureau, he told me what it was about.

"It was a letter to Papa from the Czar. It informed him that in May the
Emperor William was to visit St. Petersburg and that there would be
great celebrations, ending up with a review at Tsarskoe-Selo; that he
therefore wished the Astrakhan and Aral Cossacks to be represented, and
begged the Tumene Prince to bring a brigade with him. 'The Czarina,' he
added, 'will be glad to make her little niece's acquaintance on this
occasion.' I had forgotten to tell you that I was her niece, owing to
Papa's marriage with a Grand-Duchess of Hesse-Darmstadt.

"I can assure you that I had never found the days long in our Volga
palace, yet, as I listened to my father, I must confess to a feeling of
joyous excitement, and from that moment I had only one idea--to astonish
the Czar, the Czarina, the German Emperor and, indeed, the whole world.
I spent days on end looking into my glass, and admit that I was not
altogether displeased with what I saw there.

"Hitherto I had had my clothes made at Astrakhan by Menjuzan Surs,
excellent French dressmakers who visited Paris once a year for their
models and did good business with fashionable Circassian society. Papa
gave me unlimited credit and two days later I left with Mlle. Jauffre.
But I must tell you I had a scheme of my own.

"I came back from Astrakhan and told him I could find nothing at all. I
wept all over him and vowed I would never appear at Court dressed like
a savage. You can imagine that I had no intention of missing such a
splendid opportunity of seeing Paris. Papa took a good deal of
persuading, but I soon realized he wouldn't be sorry to see his old
friends there again.

"We left early in March. My one fear when we arrived in Paris, of which
my head was full, was to betray any sort of astonishment, and that is no
doubt why my manner was somewhat affected.

"Papa lost no time in finding out that he had a whole mass of visits and
engagements. He only put in an appearance at the 'Ritz' for meals and
not always for them.

"He wanted me to go to Redfern, but I chose Doucet, out of perversity. I
have never seen anything more absurd than Mlle. Jauffre, in her
pince-nez and black satin gown, smothered in jet, standing among the
lovely girls who bowed to me and walked up and down to help me to
choose.

"I was asked: 'What does your Highness require?'

"'Everything,' I replied coldly.

"In a twinkling I had ordered six evening gowns, twelve tailor-mades,
two riding-habits, and everything else on the same scale.

"Nothing was _dcollet_ enough for my taste. Mlle. Jauffre was green
in the face. The head saleswoman took it upon herself to tell me it was
rather risqu for a young lady. I told her to get on with the fitting.
Besides, Papa appeared on one occasion and approved my choice. He gave
me a proud look that made me altogether happy, for I knew what a good
judge he was.

"That evening he must have had a twinge of conscience at leaving me so
much to myself, for he told me we were to dine together and instructed
Mlle. Jauffre to bring me to Laurent's in the Avenue Gabriel at eight
o'clock to the minute. I need hardly say that at eight o'clock no one
was there. I sat down on a form and waited. To while away the time I
drew out the little inlaid dagger I carried in my belt and cut my
initials on the bench. I expect they're still there.

"At ten minutes past eight, seeing an old gentleman hovering round us
and feeling the need of a little dissipation, I told Mlle. Jauffre to go
out to the tobacco kiosk in the Avenue Matignon and buy me a box of
_Mercds_. She demurred at first, but ultimately went. The old man
then came up to me. He had check trousers and a grey felt hat. He began
a very entertaining conversation and mentioned a little flat in the Rue
d'Offmont and a lift hung with tapestry curtains. I turned my head to
hide my uncontrollable laughter and was all the more astonished to hear
a resounding smack. When I turned round I saw Papa. The old gentleman
beat a dignified retreat, murmuring something about having a little
joke. In the moonlight I noticed that his grey hat had been badly
battered.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

In February 1909, a young woman is shooting ducks from a boat on the Volga River when she sees her father's Cossack signaling to her from the bank. The Cossack tells her that the Prince (her father) wants her in his study. When she arrives, her father shows her a letter from the Czar informing him that Emperor William is visiting St. Petersburg in May and that there will be a review at Tsarskoe-Selo. The Czar requests that the Astrakhan and Aral Cossacks be represented, and the Tumene Prince is to bring a brigade. The Czarina adds that she would like to make her little niece's acquaintance on this occasion. 
The young woman is excited at the prospect of going to Paris and seeing the Emperor. She spends days looking in the mirror, anticipating how she will impress everyone. She orders a new wardrobe from a fashionable French dressmaker, and when she returns to Astrakhan to collect it, she tells her father that she can find nothing suitable. She weeps and tells him she would rather die than be seen in public like a savage. Her father relents and they soon depart for Paris. 
Upon their arrival, the young woman is determined to make a good impression. She is cold and aloof with everyone she meets, and orders an extravagant wardrobe from the fashionable dressmaker Doucet. She also flirts with an old gentleman she meets at a restaurant, much to her father's dismay.