Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"I saw him getting the best of you," she said, with a little doubt in
her face.

"Because I did not want to hurt your brother. Did you turn in an alarm?"

"Yes."

"Before the firemen came your brother had got away from me and ran.
Then I, remaining to extinguish the fire, was arrested for causing it."

"Arrested?" Her eyes opened in wonder and alarm.

"And the best proof, Miss Morton," I said grimly, "that I am too much
of a man to boast about a woman, is that I served five years in Trenton
prison rather than call upon you to clear me."

"You did? Jack!"

Tears started to her eyes, but I went on relentlessly:

"The case was well outlined to me by your brother on the morning after
my arrest. He had sent the policeman into the house after me, and
having succeeded so far, called upon me in jail to carry it further. I
was to plead guilty so as not to attract attention to him. The evidence
was against me. I was caught adding fuel to the fire, and with my face
and clothing smeared with oil. My only chance was that the girl that
I loved would come forward. She did not, and I could not ask her. No
doubt, your brother told you that lie to kill any interest or curiosity
you may have felt concerning me."

For a moment I thought she was going to faint. She paled to the tips of
her small ears, staggered back, and leaned against the bulkhead, her
lips parted and her eyes staring at me in wonder and horror.

"Why--why," she gasped, "why did you not tell me?"

"To ask that you save me at your brother's expense?" I answered.
"To place you on the stand, where the lawyers could bait you? To
compromise you? To shield myself behind a woman's good name? No, Miss
Morton, whatever I may have become under the influence of stripes and
confinement, I was, at that time, a graduate of Annapolis--an officer
and a gentleman."

She shrank away from me and seemed about to fall. Then, having spoken
my mind, the bitterness left me, and I would have gone back to prison
could I have unsaid my words. The old love replaced the hate, and I
reached forward, just to touch her hand, if I might; but she drew it
away.

"Don't," she whispered weakly. "Don't. I didn't know; I didn't know."
She was not speaking to me, and for a moment I hesitated. Then I
forcibly turned her face to mine and looked into her eyes, swimming
with tears. "It's all right, Grace," I said huskily. "Never mind."

"I would have come," she said, in a firmer voice, "but I did not--"

I had my arms around her now, and for a moment she lay unresisting, her
face close to mine; but the next moment she struggled free.

"The girl that you loved," she said softly, accenting the last word.

"And love now," I rejoined, seizing her again. Then I flung her from me
and bolted into my room, on the port side of the passage.

The captain had appeared in the dining-room, and seven bells--breakfast
time--rang on deck. When she reached the deck I went in to my breakfast.

That evening, in the last dog-watch, Grace came to me at the
weather-mizzen rigging.

"I have questioned him, Jack, and at last he admitted it," she said.
"He is a nervous wreck, has been so for a year, and now I know why.
Your term was coming to an end and for fear of you he has dragged me
all over Europe and the Orient. He had you watched and knew by cable
that you had shipped for Hongkong, but did not imagine that you would
join this ship, which he found here on our arrival. He did not expect
you here for a month."

"We made a fast passage out," I answered. "But what about him? What is
to be done with him? Is he still a pyromaniac?"

"I do not know. It is congenital, and may break out at any time. But at
any rate, I am through with him. He has forfeited all my regard. When
we get home I shall remain there."

"And I suppose you do not want the captain informed of his weakness for
fire?"

"Not unless you think it necessary, Jack."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is intense and dramatic. The point of view is first person, and the tone is angry and bitter. There is a lot of dialogue, which reveals the characters' emotions and thoughts.