What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XXIII

DISCOVERY


Pulling their hats further down on their heads to keep the rain out
of their eyes, the two boys directed their ponies toward the cabin.
The horses were twitching nervously every time a streak of lightning
tore the rain-washed sky, and it took skillful hands to keep them
from running wild.

A blinding flash came just as they reached the cabin, and a tree not
a hundred yards away fell to the ground with a startling crash.
Teddys pony threw back his head and whinnied in terror.

Close! Roy yelled. Watch that bronc of yours, Teddy! Hes a
sidewinder!

The warning was unnecessary, for Teddy at the same moment seized the
horses mane with a firm hand. This had a quieting effect, and the
bronco lowered his head once more.

Now they were at the door of the dwelling, and both boys leaped from
their mounts. The cabin was a ramshackle affair, simply four walls
and a roof, with no porch. There was one window in the front and one
on the side, neither of which had an unbroken pane. But at least the
place afforded shelter, and tying their ponies to a pole which stood
at the rear, partly under the eaves, Teddy and Roy ran to the front
door.

Seizing the knob, Teddy pushed. The plank door flew open, and the
boys entered. The windows allowed some light to penetrate the
interior, but, even so, it was dark and dreary within. The boys saw
that four chairs were grouped about a rough table. On one side was a
couch that had long passed its days of usefulness. A stone fireplace
was built in one of the walls, and Roy noticed with relief that
there were several pieces of wood piled on the andirons. A door
opened into another room, evidently a bed chamber. Above were the
bare rafters, opening up to a peaked roof.

Teddy removed his sodden hat and whacked it on the table.

Wow! he gasped. Some rain! Golly, Im wet through!

So am I, Ill tell a maverick! Roy exclaimed. He looked about him
curiously. Were pretty lucky to stumble on this. Wonder who in
thunder ever lived here?

Some sheep-herder, most likely, his brother declared. Walking to
the door he pushed it more firmly shut. Thank goodness the roof
doesnt leak! Say, look at the wood in the grate! Seems as if some
one had been here not so long ago and intended to come back.

Well, if he comes back now, hell find his wood being used, Roy
said, with a chuckle. Got a dry match, Teddy?

Searching his pockets, Teddy found a box nearly full. The water had
not touched them, and in a few moments a fire was crackling merrily.

This is gravy! Teddy exclaimed, extending his hands to the warmth.
Baby! Listen to that rain! Wed be about drowned if we were out in
that.

Ever see this place before? Roy asked, as he took off his vest and
hung it on a chair. Neither of the boys wore coats, heavy shirts and
vests affording them all the protection they needed in that country
at this season.

Nope. Dont remember. Did you?

Dont think so. Lets see whats in that other room.

The door was a trifle hard to open, but Roy put his shoulder against
it and shoved. It gave under his weight, and he entered.

For a moment he stood staring.

Well, what is it? his brother asked, walking forward. See a
ghost, or something?

Mighty funny, Roy said in a puzzled tone, as though to himself.
Take a look!

He stepped aside, and Teddy peered in. What he saw caused him to
utter an exclamation.

On the side of the wall was a gun-rack. Hanging from it were seven
rifles, all well oiled and polished, as though they had been
recently taken care of. On the floor were several boxes of
cartridges. But, stranger than this and what had brought the cry of
surprise from Teddy, was a pile of queerly shaped implements in one
corner.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the setting and to establish the conflict. The conflict is established by the fact that the boys are stranded in a storm with no shelter. The author also establishes the setting by describing the cabin and the surrounding area.