Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
VII.

_MR. WINSLOW IN A DIFFERENT LIGHT._

"You'll find him a rough stick," said Archie.

"What, rougher than me or Harry?" said Bob.

"Well, as you've put the question I'll answer you pat.  I don't
consider either you or Harry particularly rough.  If you're rough
you're right, Bob, and it is really wonderful what a difference
mixing with the world has done for both of you; and if you knew a
little more of the rudiments of English grammar, you would pass at a
pinch."

"Thank ye," said Bob.

"You've got a bit of the bur-r-r of Northumbria in your brogue, but I
do believe people like it, and Harry isn't half the Cockney he used
to be.  But, Bob, this man--I wish I could say gentleman--Winslow
never was, and never could be, anything but a shell-back.  He puts me
in mind of the warty old lobsters one sees crawling in and out among
the rocks away down at the point yonder.

"But, oh!" added Archie, "what a little angel the daughter is!  Of
course she is only a baby.  And what a lovely name--Etheldene!  Isn't
it sweet, Bob?"

"I don't know about the sweetness; there is a good mouthful of it,
anyhow."

"Off you go, Bob, and dress.  Have you darned those holes in your
gloves?"

"No; bought a new pair."

"Just like your extravagance.  Be off!"

Bob Cooper took extra pains with his dressing to-day, and when he
appeared at last before his little wife Sarah, she turned him round
and round and round three times, partly for luck, and partly to look
at him with genuine pride up and down.

"My eye," she said at last, "you does look stunning!  Not a pin in
sight, nor a string sticking out anywheres.  You're going to see a
young lady, I suppose; but Sarah ain't jealous of her little man.
She likes to see him admired."

"Yes," said Bob, laughing; "you've hit the nail straight on the head;
I am going to see a young lady.  She is fourteen year old, I think.
But bless your little bobbing bit o' a heart, lass, it isn't for her
I'm dressed.  No; I'm going with t' young Squire.  He may be all the
same as us out here, and lets me call him Archie.  But what are they
out here, after all?  Why, only a set o' whitewashed heathens.  No, I
must dress for the company I'm in."

"And the very young lady?----"

"Is a Miss Winslow.  I think t' young Squire is kind o' gone on her,
though she is only a baby.  Well, good-bye, lass."

"Good-bye, little man."

Etheldene ran with smiles and outstretched arms to meet Archie, but
drew back when she noticed the immense bearded stranger.

"It's only Bob," said Archie.  "Is your father in?"

"Yes, and we're all going to have tea out here under the trees."

The "all" was not a very large number; only Etheldene's governess and
father, herself, and a girl playmate.

Poor Etheldene's mother had died in the Bush when she was little more
than a baby.  The rough life had hardly suited her.  And this child
had been such a little bushranger from her earliest days that her
present appearance, her extreme beauty and gentleness, made another
of those wonderful puzzles for which Australia is notorious.

Probably Etheldene knew more about the blacks, with their strange
customs and manners, their curious rites and superstitions, and more
about the home life of wallabies, kangaroos, dingoes, birds, insects,
and every thing that grew wild, than many a professed naturalist; but
she had her own names, or names given by blacks, to the trees and to
the wild flowers.

While Etheldene, somewhat timidly it must be confessed, was leading
big Bob round the gardens and lawns by the hand as if he were a kind
of exaggerated schoolboy, and showing him all her pets--animate and
inanimate--her ferns and flowers and birds, Winslow himself came upon
the scene with the _Morning Herald_ in his hand.  He was dressed--if
dressing it could be called--in the same careless manner Archie had
last seen him.  It must be confessed, however, that this
semi-negligent style seemed to suit him.  Archie wondered if ever he
had worn a necktie in his life, and how he would look in a dress
suit.  He lounged up with careless ease, and stuck out his great
spade of a hand.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Archie: the young squire, puts Mr. Winslow in mind of a warty old lobster
-Bob Cooper: extra careful with his dressing today, married to Sarah
-Sarah: Bob's wife, turns him around to look at his outfit with pride
-Etheldene: the young lady, fourteen years old, very beautiful and gentle
-Etheldene's governess: unnamed
-Etheldene's father: unnamed
-Etheldene's mother: died in the Bush when she was a baby
-Mr. Winslow: Etheldene's father, dressed in a semi-negligent style