What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Fortunately, the short afternoon was closing in, and a cold spring
wind came blowing off the snow-topped hills.  It set the soldiers
shivering and stumbling camp wards.  It also set Muckle John free and
travelling slowly towards the rough land at the foot of the slope.

And then he thrust his head through the hay, like a tortoise out of
its shell, and looked about him.

To his right stood a sentry, apparently dozing, To his left, another
sentry, but marching to and fro to keep warm.  Very patiently Muckle
John waited for several things to happen.  It was inevitable that
darkness would fall soon, and that meant safety.  It was also very
probable that the increasing cold would send both sentries tramping
up and down, and in that lay a chance to escape into the heather
unseen.

But against these two probabilities was the stern fact that horses
need fodder, and that every minute brought the search for the tussock
of hay nearer.

Had Muckle John been the kind of man who, having exercised a maximum
of caution, takes a minimum of risk through a very proper spirit, he
would have made a run for it, and dodging the sentries' bullets,
trusted to the twilight to cover his flight.

But Muckle John had a certain pride in these episodes.  He liked to
complete a piece of work like this--to leave at his own good
pleasure; above all, not to give his enemies the empty satisfaction
of knowing just how he had managed it.  At that moment the sentry who
dozed dropped his musket, and, hastily picking it up, tramped heavily
up and down like his companion.  There was just a space of five
seconds exactly when both their heads were turned away from him.

Five times Muckle John tested it, leaving half a second for accidents
and the half-turns at the corners.

Then drawing himself clear of the hay, he waited, crouching on his
hands and knees.  At last with a spring, he cleared the danger-spot,
and was flat with the heather when the sentries turned again.

The next five seconds saw him thirty yards away, the next another
forty, and then he fell to running with bent back--a shadow among
shadows, until he was gathered into the darkness and was seen no more.


It was on the evening of the next day that Muckle John, travelling
all night and resting by day, reached Inverness, and, muffling up his
face, trod through the silent town and knocked at the door of Miss
Macpherson.  Inside all was utterly quiet, and for a moment he feared
that she had gone.

But very slowly the door opened, and a pair of keen eyes looked into
his face, while a nose like an eagle's beak was thrust forward as
though on the point of striking.

"Wha's there?" she cried.

"Mistress Macpherson," said Muckle John; "let me in, for I am spent,
and this is no the place to exchange pleasantries..."

"Pleasantries indeed," she snorted.  "Nothing was farther frae my
mind," but she let him in for all that, and bolted the door.

Then, raising the rush-light, she stared into his face.

"Oh!" she cried, "and I thought so.  Good evening, Mr. Muckle John,
though no sae muckle in spirit as when last we met."

"No, madam--ye say true," he replied frowning at the fire-light.

"Tell me," said she, "before we go farther--what of Rob, the
obstinate, dour body?"

Muckle John shifted his eyes.

"Maybe he's no been as fortunate as we could have wished," he said,
slowly shaking his head.

"Dinna clash words wi' me!" she screamed.  "Oot with it, ye Hieland
cateran--what o' Rob--where is he--is he in prison?"

"No, no," cried Muckle John, "though maybe no so far off, either."

The hawk eyes were now fixed fiercely on him.

"What did ye come here for?" she cried.  "What has kept your feet
hammering the road for hours past?  Was it just for the pleasure o' a
crack wi' me?  Oh, no, my man, there's a bonny tale behind your
face," and she sat herself down, her chin resting on her hand.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the character of Muckle John and to establish his relationship with Miss Macpherson. We learn that Muckle John is a resourceful and cunning man, who is not afraid to take risks. He is also loyal to his friends, as demonstrated by his willingness to travel all night to reach Inverness and warn Miss Macpherson of the danger she is in.