Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
II

SCOTLAND YARD


There is that within the professional criminals nature which distrusts
the men who carry out the laws. The laws, themselves, may be fair, but
man, in the cracksmans opinion, is a human element who is very liable
to overplay his part.

Chester Fay had lain too long on the hard planks at Dartmoor to believe
in MacKeenons good intentions. The Scot had a reputation for getting
results. He was also the very keen tool of brainier men who managed the
Criminal Intelligence Division of Scotland Yard.

The romance of all underworld activity on the Continent and in England
was bound up in the Yard. Its long arm could reach down a blind alley in
Paris and snatch a man to the light of justice. It could lift a fleeing
suspect from the deck of a ship at sea. It stopped at nothing!

Fay suspected a well-baited trap of the superior order as he followed
MacKeenon through a dim-lighted hallway. He gripped his palms as they
waited in the gloom for a door to be unlocked by the servant who had
answered the inspectors knock of four taps and then five.

The room which was suddenly revealed, like the flash of a cinematograph,
contained a long mahogany table running from wall to wall, and a
half-score of heavy teakwood chairs which blended into the rich dark
finish of the wainscoting. There was little else in the way of
furnishings. Fay counted three black tin boxes upon the table. Each box
was marked with a code number and the initials C. I. D. His eyes lifted
over these boxes and stared at a man who wore a mask which was far too
small to hide a jaw so square and masterful. It brought a slight smile
of recognition to the cracksmans lips.

The man in the mask was Sir Richard Colstrom, Chief of the Criminal
Investigation Division!

Fay divined, with the flash thoughts of a professional, that the matter
of bringing him out of Dartmoor was an important one. It could be
nothing puerile with Sir Richard mixed up in the case. The chief played
a high hand and played it hard.

The farce of the mask was apparent when MacKeenon softly closed the door
to the hallway, turned the key, then coughed as in a signal. Sir Richard
half rose from the deep chair in which he had been reclining and leaned
his elbows upon the table. His finger lowered and leveled straight for
Fays steady glance.

Remove your cap!

Fay smiled thinly, reached upward and brought down the plaid cap which
he bunched in his right hand. The silver of his hair caught the chiefs
eyes. Sir Richard raised his brows and glanced at MacKeenon. He said
cuttingly:

A little oldera little wisera little grayer than before, eh Mac?

A hae noo doot ov it.

Both men laughed at Fays expense. The cracksman failed to see the joke.
He stiffened slightly and glanced about the room. The windows were
shaded and undoubtedly locked. The lamps of the place were controlled by
a switch near the door which led to the hallway. This seemed to be the
only entrance or exit to the room.

Sir Richard noted the result of his thrust with a steady glint in his
eyes. He leaned further over the table and said:

I had you brought to London for a reason, Fay.

The cracksman closed his fists and straightened his slender shoulders.
He distrusted Sir Richard full-heartedly. There is that which exists
between the police and the criminal tribes which calls for no truce. Fay
was completely on his guard.

I had you brought here, continued the Chief of Staff, after some
study of the right and the wrong in the matter. We have your record!

Sir Richard pointed toward the south and the direction of New Scotland
Yard.

Yes, we have it, he continued slowly. Its a criminal shame, Fay,
that a man of your ability ever entered the downward path of crime. It
leads nowhere, and damn fast you go. Youre bucking the stream all of
the time. You cant beat the law!

Fay glanced along his tweed suit and studied the points of his
well-polished shoes. They fitted so well he wondered if they had been
made from his Bertillon measurements. He glanced up and into Sir
Richards half-hidden eyes.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of menace and foreboding.