Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Lieutenant," said the Grand Duchess dryly, "I must first ask you to
stop your men from breaking up my car with their rifle butts. Then
perhaps you will be good enough to look at this."

So saying she flashed the lamp upon the Lautenburg arms painted on the
door.

The officer started.

"Have I the honour of addressing Her Highness the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg?" he said, stiffening to attention.

"You have, lieutenant," replied Aurora.

"I must ask Your Highness to excuse me," the man said in dismay. "Back
there!" he bawled to his men, thrusting back the foremost. "How can I
serve Your Highness?"

"Very easily," said the Grand Duchess. "I presume General von Offenburg
is still commanding at Thionville? I suspect His Excellency is not
asleep on a night like this. Be so good as to take me to him. Lend me
one of your men to come with us and show us the way."

The officer at once did what was required. He bowed very low, expressing
his regret that his duties did not permit him to conduct us himself.

The General in command of the fortress was not at headquarters, but in
the end we found him at the station with his staff. He was watching the
detraining of the troops at the platforms, which were literally black
with them. In the great square an enormous mass of guns projected their
antediluvian silhouettes on the night. I received an impression of sheer
numbers and brute force which made me shudder.

When an orderly officer had informed General von Offenburg of the Grand
Duchess's presence he came forward at once. He was a fine figure of a
man, in his long grey cloak with the scarlet collar. He bowed to Aurora
and reminded her that he had once had the honour of dancing with her in
Berlin. But with all his efforts he could barely conceal his
astonishment at our presence at that hour and in such a guise.

"Don't be too much surprised, General," said Aurora, with a smile. "As
soon as I heard of the great events in prospect in this quarter I felt I
could not remain at Lautenburg. I wanted to see and admire our men at
the frontier, and here I am, with my orderly officer Lieutenant von
Hagen, of the 7th Hussars," she said, presenting me.

I saluted as stiffly and punctiliously as I possibly could.

"Then why, Your Highness," exclaimed von Offenburg, "have you come this
way? There is nothing very interesting here. The 16th Corps is a rock
which nothing can move. Why did you not go round by Aachen?"

"Yes," she said. "That was suggested. Round by Aix-la-Chapelle ...?"

"Hadn't you heard that the whole army is being concentrated there?" the
General whispered.

"That's true," said Aurora. "But the Belgian frontier doesn't interest
me. I should never have forgiven myself if I had not seen the French
frontier at the very outbreak of war."

"I greet you as the intrepid colonel of the brave 7th Hussars," said von
Orenburg, kissing her hand. "Can I assist you in any way?"

"Most certainly you can," said Aurora. "Do you realize your sentries
arrested me off-hand just now? I ought really to ask you for an escort,
but I'm afraid my _Benz_ would be hard put to it to keep up with your
dragoons. May they take me as far as the outposts, and please give me
some kind of permit to save me from any more little accidents when I
come back. We must hurry on. It will soon be dawn, and I want to see the
first rays of sunlight on the frontier-posts."

The General had a permit brought. "There," he said, initialling it with
a flourish. "You've just got time. Villerupt, in France, is a mile and a
quarter from the frontier, and barely thirteen from here. You will be
there in less than half an hour. But don't expect to see any French
soldiers. Their Government has ordered them to withdraw two leagues from
the frontier, to avoid any accident likely to precipitate war," he
concluded with a coarse laugh.

Escorted by a half-troop of dragoons we made an impressive exit from
Thionville. When we had covered rather more than a mile on the
Audun-le-Roman road the Grand Duchess whispered in my ear:

"They are very kind, but I'm afraid we would find them a nuisance in the
long run."

And she let the car out to its top speed. Behind us, in the first faint
light of day, the dragoons were soon strung out, and, a moment later,
out of sight on the dark road.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The Grand Duchess Aurora is on her way to the French border to see the troops at the outbreak of war. She is stopped by a group of German soldiers, who are surprised to see her. The officer in charge is Lieutenant von Hagen, of the 7th Hussars.
The Grand Duchess explains that she wanted to see the troops at the frontier, and the officer offers to take her to their commander, General von Offenburg. The General is surprised to see her, but is pleased to have the opportunity to dance with her again.
The Grand Duchess asks the General for an escort to take her as far as the outposts, and he provides a permit for her to return safely. She sets off with a troop of dragoons, but quickly outdistances them on the road.