What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Kid McCray was surprisingly persistent, however. Two days later, he
button-holed Strike and urged him to radio Mars, on the theory that if
there were a missing middleweight champion, that might prove his story.

"Too bad you didn't think of that before," Strike smothered a grin and
pointed out solemnly. "We're already too far from Mars for the limited
capacity of our ship's radio."

No whit discouraged, McCray again petitioned the captain next day. He
had learned the story of Dacres' brother, and the peculiar, untimely
illness which had reduced the crew of _The Ark_.

"Don't that seem kinda odd, Captain?" insisted McCray, striving to look
mysterious. "An' could anybody be so lucky as to find a half-dozen
number-one mechanics on Mars at a moment's notice? Maybe we better turn
back right now!"

Strike got endless amusement from the little battles of wits in which
McCray clumsily offered varied reasons for returning to Mars. But the
ex-fighter's point about Dacres' substitute crewmen stuck in his mind.
He remembered, too, the conversation he'd overheard the day McCray had
awakened on the ship. The exact words escaped him, but hadn't Dacres
been speaking as if to long-time acquaintances? The sudden silence, the
suspicious looks when he shoved open the door and entered the room--had
they meant anything?

Feeling very foolish, Strike dropped down to talk with Baumstark, the
chief engineer, and was quickly reassured.

"It's working out fine, sir," the engineer said. "The new fellows are
really topnotch engine men, especially that Monk. Not much to look at,
but always asking questions. Probably could run the ship himself right
now!"

After that, even McCray seemed to give up trying, tending strictly to
business, as the mighty ship fled at astronomical speeds through the
vast remoteness of the spaceways. Days drifted into weeks. One by one,
the major planets' orbits passed astern. Then, another of those queerly
unrelated incidents ruffled the surface of the quiet routine.

McCray was involved, as usual. On an inspection tour, Strike came
upon him sprawled on the floor of one of the cabins, nursing a welt
above his ear. Standing over him was Monk, a wrench in one hand and a
wicked-looking proton pistol in the other.

"Nosey!" Monk was shouting. "Buttinsky! What's the idea?"

McCray explained fuzzily that he had just been searching for a tool in
Monk's space-bag, and accidentally found the gun.

"Well, next time ask me first," Monk cried. "Besides, finding I got a
gun is nothin' to get excited about. We're goin' to a strange world,
an' it might be dangerous, see? We might need some weapons."

Tommy Strike chose that moment to make his presence known. He lashed
Monk verbally, took the gun from him.

"It's the officers' duty to take care of the arsenal aboard this ship.
No weapons are ever permitted in the men's quarters."

Monk scuffed his feet, made a handsome apology, and he and McCray
went back to work. Strike watched them pensively, recalling past
events, wondering if there were a pattern. On impulse, he searched
the belongings of Dacres' recruits, and found exactly nothing
out-of-the-way. Sheepishly, he returned to the flight deck, resolved
not to bother Gerry with his unworthy suspicions.

That proved a mistake. The mystery came to a sudden and explosive head
before the next changing of the watch. They were only one day out from
Triton, and Gerry was making telescopic observations of the satellite.

"I've checked Triton's rotational speed, Tommy," she said. "It spins
once around on its axis every forty-five minutes or so. Really rolling
down this cosmic bowling alley, eh?"

Those were the most important words Strike had ever heard in his life,
though he did not realize it then. Instead, he made idle conversation.

"Yes," he said, "but there's precedent for it. Look at
Jupiter--twenty-nine times as large as this marble, counting its
atmospheric envelope, rotating once in a bit over nine hours."

As if the words were a cue, the door burst open, and Dacres, Monk, and
the other substitute crewmen shouldered through. All were armed. In a
split second, the entire plot, portions of which had been tantalizing
Strike for days, was clear.

"So," said Gerry Carlyle, "it's mutiny."

[Illustration: "So," said Gerry Carlyle, "it's mutiny."]


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to reveal the mutiny that is taking place on the ship. The author achieves this goal by having Strike overhear a conversation, search the belongings of the new crewmen, and find a gun in Monk's space-bag.