Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
IX

THE TURN OF THE SCALES

"Rob," said Muckle John, "this is a nice business, for here we are
with the wild Cameron country and Arkaig safely behind us, and within
a few steps of Glengarry's land, for which we have been struggling
for the last four hours and more."

To the south-east of them was Glen-Pean and Glen-Kingie stretching
out in solitude.  But between them and comparative safety lay the
sleeping English tents, and nearing them at every moment were the
Camerons and Macaulay.  Muckle John shook his head gloomily.  "We
canna go back, Rob, and we canna go forward--at least no until
nightfall, and then we're like to meet with a bullet."

He lay upon the ground, and chewed a piece of grass, eyeing the
English tents with a frown.

"We're as good as lost," said Rob hopelessly.

"Man Rob," replied Muckle John grimly, "ye possess a rare
discernment."

With a sigh Rob let him be, and took to thinking about his own
desperate affairs.  Twice during the past twelve hours he had been on
the point of destroying the paper and each time he was thankful that
he had waited.  But now they were as good as lost.  Captured either
by the English or by Macaulay they were doomed for a quick death, and
the dispatch would prove a great piece of treasure-trove for
either--the map that would show the way to Prince Charlie's gold,
with which he could buy ten thousand men to his standard.  At least
that was how Rob looked at it, and some would say there was some
truth in what he believed.

It was the thought of the money falling into such hands that
determined him to destroy the map.  He stole a glance at Muckle John,
but his eyes were fixed steadily on vacancy.  Then slipping away, he
leaned with his back against a rock, and drew the envelope cautiously
from the side of his brogue, where he had concealed it.

It was sealed and addressed to the Prince.  Rob had hardly time to
glance at it, however, before a warning call from Muckle John made
him spring to his feet, the paper still in his hand.

"See, Rob," cried he, but eyeing the piece of paper keenly, "here
comes Macaulay from the west, so we must decide on the instant.  Once
and for the last time, hae ye onything that I can tak' charge of, for
it's you they'll search, no me."

Rob felt himself weakening, but again his promise to Cameron withheld
him.

"No," he cried, and made as though to tear the paper in two.

"You doited fool!" screamed Muckle John, rushing at his hands.

Rob with quick alarm leaped aside, and the big man tripped and
floundered along the ground.  What was he to do?  But of a sudden he
stood still.  Why should he doubt Muckle John?

"I've taken your advice," he said, and showed the piece of paper in
his hand.

"It's only what seems reasonable," replied Muckle John.  "Now put it
by, for it's neck or nothing for us, Rob."

"Have you a plan?" asked the boy, with his eyes on the white tents
and his heart in a sad state of fright.

"A sort of a plan," he replied, and started at a run rewards the
English.

Without a word Rob followed him.  There was no time to question such
a course, and already Macaulay was within a mile of them.  But when
he saw them heading for the tents in the glen below he paused, as
well he might, for the sight of two Jacobite rebels scampering
towards an English camp was sufficiently arresting.

The Highlanders with him, who had no wish for nearer acquaintance
with red-coated soldiery, slackened their pace too, and, dropping
below the sky-line, became invisible in the heather.

On ran Muckle John, and behind him Rob, until an English sentinel
raised his musket and called to them to halt.  The boy glanced
anxiously at his companion's face.  But he gathered nothing there.
There was certainly no sign of fear.

"Who goes there?" cried the sentry.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of foreboding. The point of view is third person limited, focused on the characters of Muckle John and Rob. The tone is one of apprehension, as the characters are surrounded by enemies and do not know what to expect.