What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XII

IN THE HANDS OF THE DUKE

To Rob the world had suddenly fallen very hopeless and forlorn.  By
no conspiracy of Fate could matters have worked out more to his
undoing.  The precious paper entrusted to him by Dr. Cameron, full of
he knew not what vital news and directions regarding the hidden
treasure, had been stolen, but worse still by an unknown hand.  It is
comforting in a dreary way to know who has played the thief.  But Rob
had not even that poor satisfaction.

He had been taken asleep, and between that time and the journey to
Fort Augustus the paper had mysteriously vanished.  A horrible
thought presented itself.  Was it taken from him before he was bound
by the soldiers?  Muckle John had disappeared without a word or an
effort to save him.  He had half-heartedly hoped for a rescue on the
road, but no sign of living soul had met his eyes.

And at last, at sunset, they had reached the Fort, and he was
conducted to a guard-room and there left to his own thoughts.

Suddenly the door opened softly and the angular form of Captain
Strange slid into the room.  Rob started to his feet and waited in
silence for him to speak.

But that Strange seemed in no hurry to do.  Instead, he took to
walking slowly up and down the room with his hands coiled behind his
back and his chin sunk upon his chest.

Then, "Rob," said he, "what did I tell ye in Inverness?"

To which he received no reply.  Rob had the rare gift of silence.

"Did I no tell ye that a gibbet was like enough to watch your capers
before very long?  Maybe ye've no seen a man hanged by the neck, Rob.
It's no a bonny sight, say what you will; and in my way of thinking,
no a pleasant prospect for onybody, least of all for a lad of spirit
like yersel', Rob, for I'll no deny I admire your pluck," and he
breathed heavily and stared out of the window.

"Did you come to talk about hanging?" asked Rob, struggling to speak
with composure.

"In passing, Rob--merely in passing.  It is a subject that fascinates
me, I'll no deny.  Come here a minute; ye can see the hanging-tree
against the sky-line.  It's a rare poseetion, Rob--there'll be nane
will pass this way but will ask 'Who's dangling there?' and they'll
learn it was Rob Fraser, executed for meddling with what didna
concern him.  It's a braw fool ye'll look, then, Rob--no great rebel
dying for his principles, but just a silly laddie who ran a big risk
for other people's dirty profit."

"You can call it what you will," cried Rob, stung to anger, and
paused.

"Say your say, Rob; dinna be afraid," encouraged Strange softly.

Rob shut his lips seeing there was a trap being laid for him.

Perceiving that he would not speak, the other frowned a moment, then
with an appearance of kindly sympathy he patted him upon the shoulder.

"Forget my foolish havers," he said.  "I was only warning you for
your ain good, for it's a dangerous game you're playing, Rob, and a
game that you are playing in the dark.  Will ye hear me out and say
if what I'm telling ye is no true," and he drew a stool near to the
boy.

"Let me run over your movements for the last week or so," he went on.
"After Culloden--and ye mind I did my best to save ye that night in
Inverness--you came to Lovat's country, and thence down to Arkaig.
There you met Cameron and buried the gold.  There also you escaped
out of our hands, and I'll grant no so clumsily, though you were not
to blame for that.  Then, accompanied by the desperate man ye ken as
Muckle John, you made to the north and were captured yesterday in
Captain Campbell's camp.  Now, Rob, is that no the truth?"

"It is," said Rob, "though what you have to say against Muckle John
should be kept for his own ear.  It is wasted on mine."

"Brawly said, Rob, but what do ye ken o' this Muckle John?  However,
that can keep.  I'd wager ye'd turn white did ye ken who Muckle John
really is.  But when you left Cameron you had a paper, Rob.
Supposing that paper fell into our hands, Rob, or those of the Duke,
what would happen, think ye?  There would be no gold for your Prince,
and from the information in the letter--supposing there should be
any, which I am assured there is--there would be such a clearing of
Jacobites, including the Pretender, as would end their cause for
ever.  That is, I repeat, supposing such a paper fell into the hands
of the Duke.  But there are those, Rob, who are Scotch after all, and
no verra partial to such measures.  There are mony, Rob, who do nane
so badly oot of your Jacobite friends, and it's poor shooting where
there's no game," and he smiled very knowingly, baring his teeth like
a fox.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the conflict between Rob and Captain Strange. Strange is trying to get information from Rob about the location of the hidden treasure, and Rob is trying to protect the information.