Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
Jean made an intense effort to listen; it seemed to him that he ought
to know who Liane was; then he gave in--after all, it would be easier
to give his consent than to have to talk any more. Ill go, he said
briefly.

It was strange on his way to the theatre that he should keep seeing
Flaubert and Gabrielle in the streets, and it was trying, too, because
he had to think two thoughts at once, and this is not easy without
practice. It makes the mind go so quickly like the long, quivering,
grey band in a threshing machine.

They would pass, Gabrielle and the fat little secretary, in a flying
motor, only the next minute to turn in at a lighted caf--though they
might at the same time be standing on the steps of a house above the
street. They even on one occasion leaned out of a window to laugh, and
stood just in front of Jean on the pavement simultaneously; but one
thing was always the same; they were laughing at Jean because he had
not killed Flaubert and because he had not stayed with Gabrielle.

Cartier pretended not to see them; he kept his eyes carefully in front
of him, and walked a little stiffly, with his hand on Jeans arm. Jean
wasnt at all sure that Cartier was not laughing at him too; perhaps
after all it would be simpler to kill Cartier; he at least was only
capable of being in one place at a time.

They arrived at the big lighted hall; it was full of little tables and
men smoking; there were women too, with jewels on their necks. And
lights, lights everywhere, and the orchestra played soft, gay music;
but they none of them had a real existence; they all seemed to Jean
like a hideous game of make-believe, played in order to drag him away
from his two great ideas.

The Revue was very like all Revues; it was the latest thing; so that
there wasnt a joke that was born as late as yesterday or would be
remembered beyond to-morrow. Still it was very clever, very neat, and
topical and gay, and the music was that fine malleable French art,
which is as clear cut as a cameo and as hard as a problem in algebra.

Jean did not pay any attention to it because, of course, he knew it
wasnt real; and then he suddenly saw Margot. He couldnt think what
she was doing on a pretence stage and in a place that looked like a
hall and was as hollow as a bad nut; it puzzled and annoyed him to see
her there, but he did not doubt Margots reality.

You could, if you were as clever and as cruel as sin, make up anything
on earth, but you couldnt invent Margot.

_Cest la petite_ Margot, he muttered; then she sang.

All the music he had ever thought of, all the music he had ever heard,
sang with her; and sang to set Jean free.

He did not realize at first what was happening to him. Her voice
drowned the bitterness of his heart, there was something in it deeper
than bitterness.

The hours he had starved in Paris drove their old meaning into his
brain; he saw the Parc Monceau in the cold spring dusk, the smell of
the coffee-stalls at dawn came back to him, and the flash of the lights
outside the theatre in the rain.

All these were in Margots voice, for out of Jeans sufferings she had
made her little songs; and as he listened he felt as if a band of iron
had been broken, a band that was pressing his life out.

He was no longer possessed by phantoms. He saw instead the little
figure on the stage. She stood close to the footlights; a tiny frown
came between her brows; she always looked like that when she was very
anxious to please Jean.

The song was over; she had only been singing one of the clever light
songs like all the others, but she had put into it the whole quality of
her voice; and she had pleased Paris. She stood there while the hall
rang with applause and flowers fell right and left upon her.

The orchestra began again, they played a little haunting melody which
laid a sudden hand upon Jeans heart. He knew this music better than
any other, for he himself had written it for Margot.

It was called _La plainte de lamour_.

Out of the flowers and the lights his gaze met Margots.

Margots eyes were very serious, very haunting, very grave. Her voice
rose like a creature spreading great wings.

It was Jeans music, _La plainte de lamour_, but it was Margots heart.

Paris, that loves its dear, light mockeries, loves simple pathos too;
not quite so much, perhaps; but the Manager was not dissatisfied with
Margots applause.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Jean sees Margot on the stage of a Revue and is surprised. He is further surprised when he realizes that she is singing his own song, "La plainte de lamour." The music fills him with emotions and he is no longer possessed by phantoms.