Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
VII

_Last Frontier_


As soon as Floring's ato-car had purred away, the little group stood in
the sunlight outside the workshop, in stricken silence.

Carlin put into words what was in all their minds.

"Jonny, you know why he took those pictures! He'll telephoto them to
Canopus headquarters to be examined by engineer experts, and they'll
send back word that the machine is a magnetic dredge for Sun-mining!"

Jonny nodded. "Yes, of course. Floring has suspected our plans all
along, and now he's going to make sure."

"And when word comes back from Canopus, he'll seize our dredge and ship
to stop our expedition!" groaned Harb.

"I know that," Jonny Land said, as his blue eyes swept them. "But it
will take fourteen or fifteen hours before he gets that report back.
Before that time ends, we've got to be on our way to the Sun!"

Laird Carlin felt a shock of astonishment, but before he could comment,
Jonny was speaking swiftly on.

"It's our only chance now--to get away before Floring receives the
proof that will authorize him to stop us! The dredge here is almost
finished. If we can install it in the 'Phoenix' and take off tonight,
we'll have our chance to prove to the galaxy that Sun-mining can be
safe."

"Install the dredge tonight?" cried Harb Land. The gangling giant's
face was sick with anxiety. "Jonny, we can't do it! Not that soon."

"We've got to!" Jonny's voice cut like a steel rapier. "Harb, you go
get Loesser and Vito and the other boys. Have them bring the big truck
with them. If we work hard enough, we should be able to have the dredge
ready to roll by dark. Once we get it into the 'Phoenix', we can take
off and complete installation in space."

"You can't do it," groaned his brother. "You know you figured on taking
a week yet for that installation."

Carlin stepped forward. He had long ago reached his decision. He had
reached it in that moment when he had answered Floring.

"I'm a CE, you know," he reminded. "I can help a lot in that
installation."

Marn stared at him, amazement and dawning gladness in her eyes. And
Harb Land's tortured face turned haggardly on Carlin.

"You'd do that? You'd help us? By heaven, if you would, we might make
it!"

Jonny's brilliant blue eyes bored Carlin's face.

"Carlin, I was hoping for this. I knew from the first I'd need another
engineer's help in installing and operating the dredge. I brought you
home because I was hoping I could enlist your aid before we started on
the expedition. But all the same, I've got to warn you. We're directly
bucking a Control Council order. You can lose your certificate and go
to Rigel prison, even if our plan succeeds. And if it doesn't succeed,
it may mean perishing with us. And after all, Earth isn't your world."

"Who the devil is doing anything for Earth?" Carlin retorted. "This old
planet of yours means nothing to me either way."

"Laird, are you so sure of that?" Marn asked him, her eyes very bright.

"Do we have to get emotional?" Carlin asked roughly. "I'm an engineer,
and this is the biggest engineering experiment to be tried for
centuries. Don't you think I want to be in on it?" He added crushingly,
"And as for my getting mixed up in the blame, I'm already blasted well
mixed in it. When I denied to Floring that this was a magnetic dredge,
I implicated myself right there in the whole business. I've got to make
it succeed, now."

Harb Land was already running toward his truck. Jonny shot sharp orders
at his sister.

"Marn, I want you and Gramp to watch the road this afternoon. Floring
might come back. Carlin, you and I haven't a moment to lose."

Carlin strode after the limping youngster into the workshop, and Jonny
there rapidly explained what remained to be done.

"The kickback feed-pipes to the beam-head have to be hooked up, the
cooling coils to solidify the copper are not yet in place, and the
whole dredge has to be fastened in its frame so it'll be ready to swing
aboard the truck tonight."


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

- Floring has discovered the group's plans to mine the sun and has gone to tell the authorities
- Jonny Land decides that the only way to save the plan is to take the dredge and leave before Floring can stop them
- Carlin offers to help with the installation, and they begin working
- Floring comes back, but they finish in time and take off