Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
Fifteen, she replied, sullenly.

You lie, you sow! he cried angrily; she is eighteen if she is a day.

Father was standing there beside us and when the commandant spoke as he
did to Mother I saw Father go very white and then, without a word, he
hurled himself upon the swine and before the Kash Guard who accompanied
him could prevent, Father had almost killed the commandant with his bare
hands.

You know what happenedI do not need to tell you. They killed my
father before my eyes. Then the commandant gave my mother to one of his
Kash Guard; but she snatched his bayonet from his belt and ran it
through her heart before they could prevent. I tried to follow her
example; but they seized me.

I was carried to my own bedroom on the second floor of my fathers
house and locked there. The commandant said that he would come and see
me in the evening and that everything would be all right with me. I knew
what he meant and I made up my mind that he would find me dead.

My heart was breaking for the loss of my father and mother and yet the
desire to live was strong within me. I did not want to diesomething
urged me to live, and in addition was the teaching of my father and
mother. They were both from Quaker stock and very religious. They
educated me to fear God and to do no wrong by thought or violence to
another, and yet I had seen my father attempt to kill a man and I had
seen my mother slay herself. My world was all upset. I was almost crazed
by grief and fear and uncertainty as to what was the right thing for me
to do.

And then darkness came and I heard someone ascending the stairway. The
windows of the second story are too far from the ground for one to risk
a leap; but the ivy is old and strong. The commandant was not
sufficiently familiar with the place to have taken the ivy into
consideration, and before the footsteps reached my door I had swung out
of the window and clinging to the ivy made my way to the ground down the
rough and strong old stem.

That was three days ago. I hid and wanderedI did not know in what
direction I went. Once an old woman took me in over night and fed me and
gave me food to carry for the next day. I think that I must have been
almost mad, for mostly the happenings of the past three days are only
indistinct and jumbled fragments of memory in my mind. And then the
hellhounds! Oh, how frightened I was! And thenyou!

I dont know what there was about the way she said it; but it seemed to
me as though it meant a great deal more than she knew herself. Almost
like a prayer of thanksgiving, it was, that she had at last found a safe
haven of refugesafe and permanent. Anyway I liked the idea.

And then Mollie came in and as I was leaving she asked me if I would
come that evening, and Juana cried: Oh, yes, do! and I said that I
would.

When I had finished delivering the goats milk I started for home, and
on the way I met old Samuels, the Jew. He made his living, and a scant
one it was, by tanning hides. He was a most excellent tanner; but as
nearly everyone else knew how to tan there were not many customers; but
some of the Kalkars used to bring him hides to tan. They knew nothing of
how to do any useful thing, for they were descended from a long line of
the most ignorant and illiterate people in the Moon, and the moment they
obtained a little power they would not even work at what small trades
their fathers once had learned, so that after a generation or two they
were able to live only off the labor of others. They created nothing,
they produced nothing, they became the most burdensome class of
parasites the world ever has endured.

The rich non-producers of olden times were a blessing to the world by
comparison with these, for the former at least had intelligence and
imaginationthey could direct others and they could transmit to their
offspring the qualities of mind that are essential to any culture,
progress or happiness that the world ever may hope to attain.

So the Kalkars patronized Samuels for their tanned hides, and if they
had paid him for them the old Jew would have waxed rich; but they either
did not pay him at all or else mostly in paper money that did not even
burn well, as Samuels used to say.

Good morning, Julian, he called as we met. I shall be needing some
hides soon, for the new commander of the Kash Guard has heard of old
Samuels and has sent for me and ordered five hides tanned the finest
that can be. Have you seen this Or-tis, Julian? He lowered his voice.

I shook my head negatively.

Heaven help us! whispered the old man. Heaven help us!

Is he as bad as that, Moses? I asked.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Moses Samuels, a Jew, is talking to Julian, a Quaker. He tells Julian that the new commander of the Kash Guard, Or-tis, has ordered five hides from him to be tanned the finest. Moses says that Or-tis is as bad as that, and heaven help us.