What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Matson rode back to the Three Pines, and from there followed the trail
of the two horses that had turned into the hills at this point. By the
middle of the afternoon it brought him to the Circle B R, a ranch which
nestled at the foot of the big peaks in a little mountain park.

It took no clairvoyant to see that Mrs. Rogers was not glad to see him.
Unless her face libelled her, she had been weeping. Her eyes flew a flag
of alarm as soon as they fell upon him.

Gafternoon, Mrs. Rogers. Brad home?

No. Hes at the round-up.

Gone back, has he?

She considered a moment before a reluctant Yes fell from her lips.

Reckon Ill ride over to the camp. Is it still at the foot of the Flat
Tops?

Yes. Then, as if something within forced the words out in spite of
her, she added: Are you looking for Brad?

I want to have a talk with him.

His eyes told him that she was in a flutter of apprehension. He guessed
that the dread which all day had weighed on her heart was no longer a
dull, dead thing in her bosom. Her lips were ashen.

Maybemaybe I could tell him what it was.

Oh, Ill ride over. When did he leave?

I dont rightly know just when, she faltered.

It was clear that she feared to arouse his suspicion by refusing to talk
and that she was equally afraid of telling too much.

The sheriff smiled grimly as he rode across the hills. He had five of
the raiders identified alreadyfive out of either six or seven, he
wasnt quite sure which. He glanced across toward Bald Knob, and judged
from the sky that it was already snowing over there. If he had been at
Wagon Wheel instead of at Boviers Camp when Purdy panted in with the
news of the killing he could not have arrived in time to pick up the
trail. His luck had stood up fine. That the evidence against the
lawbreakers would sift in to him now he had no doubt. He intended that
this should be the last night raid ever made in Shoshone County. Unless
the district attorney fell down on his job, more than one of the Bald
Knob raiders would end with a rope around his throat.

Matson admitted to himself a certain surprise that McCoy and Rogers
should be involved in such an affair. Sheep raids were one thing; murder
was quite another. The sheriff liked Rowan. The cattleman was straight
as a string. His word was good against that of any man in the district.
It was known that he would fight, but it was hard to think of him as
planning the cold-blooded murder of an enemy.

The sheriff knew how high the feelings ran between the sheep and cattle
interests. The cattlemen knew they were facing ruin because Tait and his
associates maintained the right to run sheep upon any range just as
others ran stock. To them it seemed that the intruders had no right
whatever to the range. It belonged to cattle by right of a long-time
prior occupancy. Moreover, under the leadership of Tait the sheepmen had
been particularly obnoxious. They had refused to recognize any dead line
whatever and their attitude had been in the nature of a boastful
challenge.

It was generally known that several of the cattlemen had personal
grievances against Tait. First there was McCoy, with one that dated back
several years. Silcott had been wounded by the sheepman and Falkner had
been badly beaten by him. Cole, too, had quarrelled with him. One of
these four might have started the shooting, Matson reasoned, or Tait
might have done so himself. Legally, the question was not a vital one,
since Tait had been shot down while defending his property against
attack. Those who had ridden on the raid were guilty of murder no matter
who fired the first shot.

Yet Matson was puzzled. McCoy had been the leader of the group. There
could be no doubt about that. His was far and away the strongest
personality. And McCoy usually thought straight. He did not muddle his
brain with false reasoning. How, then, had he come to do such a thing?

As the sheriff sat by the campfire at the round-up later, it was even
more difficult to think of this clean, level-eyed boss of the rodeo as
an ambusher by night. The whole record of the man rose up to give the
lie to the story that he had ridden out to kill his foe in the dark.
While Sam Yerby entertained the boys with one of his trail songs,
Matsons mind was going over the facts he had gathered.

Whoopee ti yi yo, git along, little dogies,
Its your misfortune and none of my own.
Whoopee ti yi yo, git along, little dogies,
For you know Wyoming will be your new home.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the character of Brad McCoy and to set up the conflict between him and the sheriff.