What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
They lay in the sage for hours, the multitudinous voices of the night
all about them in whispers of the wind, rustlings of furtive desert
dwellers, the stirring of foliage under the caress of the breeze.

McClintock read midnight on the face of his watch and murmured to his
companion, Time to get the men up.

Byers rose without a word and disappeared in the darkness.

Far away toward the north a faint pink began to paint the sky. The
colour deepened till the whole sky above Piodie took on a rose-coloured
tint.

The men from the camp below joined Scot. One whispered to another, Look
at the sky, Ben.

Fire, looks like. Bet its Piodie, the other said, startled.

No, its not Piodie. Its the valley back of the big hill north of
town, McClintock told them.

How do you know, Colonel? asked the first speaker.

Because that painted sky is a part of our fireworks, he answered.
Ill explain the programme, boys. Madden is to run across the shoulder
of the hill toward the Ground Hog. When the guard stops him hell shout,
Fire in Piodie; whole town burning up. Hell explain that Dodson wants
them all to come back to fight fire. My guess is that theyll take one
look at the sky and start north _muy pronto_. For most of the men
guarding the mine own houses in Piodie. The news will spread down the
hill, and all well have to do is to walk in and take possession. That
is, if were lucky.

Wow! Some strategy, Colonel. Did they learn you that in the war? asked
the old-timer who had come round the Horn.

Afraid I cant take credit for it. Another man made the plan of
campaign. Its up to us to execute it. Ready, Madden?

Ybetcha, Colonel.

McClintock drew him to one side and gave careful instructions. Theyre
likely to ask you a lot of questions. Take your time to answer them.
Youll be breathless and panting, because youve run all the way from
town to bring the news and to get their help. If you cant think of a
good answer tell them you dont know. You can say the fire was coming
down Turkey Creek Avenue when you left and that it was spreading to the
residence streets. But dont know too much. Thats the safest way. You
met Bob Dodson and he asked you to come out for help.

Ill say I met him just as I come out from my room fastenin my
suspenders, contributed Madden, entering into the spirit of it. Ill
say I lit a shuck for Bald Knob an only hit the high spots on the way.

Good. Well, good luck to you. Scot gave him one more suggestion. They
may leave a man or two at the Ground Hog. If they do, try to lead them
round to the north side of the shaft house. Well creep up as close as
we can and try to surprise them.

The reaction of Dodsons mine guards to the news that Piodie was on fire
was exactly what the McClintocks had anticipated.

Madden, halted by the sentry, gasped out his message. In an incredibly
short time the men were out of their bunks listening to it. Not the
faintest gleam of suspicion touched the minds of one of them. Wasnt the
proof of Maddens story written red in the sky for any of them to read?
They plunged back into the bunk house and got into more clothes. As fast
as they were ready the men went straggling downhill toward town. Much
against his will they had elected a young teamster to stay on guard at
the Ground Hog. Madden volunteered to stay with him on duty.

It was easy to lead the teamster round to the north side of the shaft
house, from which point they could better view the angry sky and
speculate on the progress of the flames.

Doggone it, thas just my luck to be stuck up here whilst the rest of
the boys go to town an see the fun, the faithful guard lamented. I
wisht Id joined the hook an ladder compny when I was asked, then Id
sure enough have to go.

Madden sympathized. It was tough luck. If he wasnt all tired out
running from town he certainly would like to see the fire himself. Sure
enough it was an A-1 fire.

They sat down on a pile of timbers that had been hauled up to the Ground
Hog for sets to be used in underground work.

A man came round the corner of the shaft house and moved toward them.
The guard caught sight of him and remembered what he was there for. He
jumped up and pulled out a revolver.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the plan that the McClintocks have devised to take over Dodsons mine. They are hoping to take the guards by surprise by leading them away from the mine and then sneaking up on them.