What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Breathing heavily at the memory of Frouds mistreatment of Flash,
Teddy pulled Generals leading rein and urged his own mount to a
faster pace.

This Gilly Froud had been a hand on the X Bar X ranch, which was
owned by Mr. Manley, the father of Roy and Teddy. One day the ranch
owner had caught Froud abusing Flash. Teddy had come around the
corner of the bunkhouse at the same instant, and took in the scene
at a glance. White to the lips, the boy started for Froud. Mr.
Manley took one look at his sons face, and, springing forward,
seized Teddy by the shoulders. Flash--Teddys Flash--had been
kicked, and Teddy had seen it. Mr. Manley tightened his grip on his
sons shoulders. There was not going to be that sort of fight on his
ranch if he could prevent it.

Teddy had come to his senses quickly, and Mr. Manley released him.
Then he turned and looked at Froud, whose face was sickly pale
underneath his tan. After this occurrence, Froud went away from that
ranch in something of a hurry.

As Teddy recalled the incident, his fist clenched and he
unconsciously drew up on Flashs rein. The horse snorted and shook
his head, as though he knew what was passing through his masters
mind.

Always did hate a man who mistreated a horse, Teddy murmured.
Sure to be something else the matter with him. No decent fellow
would kick a pony.

Still thinking about Gilly Froud? Roy asked. Come on, snap out of
it! Lots of nicer things to think about. For instance, that wrist
watch you bought at school. Baby, wait till Nick Looker finds out
you own a wrist watch! Maybe he wont ride you a little!

Teddy grinned in reply, and pushed his sombrero back from his
forehead. It was certainly a hot day.

The two Manley brothers, Teddy, aged fifteen, and Roy, one year
older, were at home, for a long time, they hoped, if not for good,
from the Hopper Boarding School, an institution just outside of
Denver. Teddy had the golden hair and blue eyes of his mother,
Barbara Manley, the blonde angel of the West, her husband often
jokingly called her. But the laugh that always went with this remark
deceived no one--least of all the boys. They caught the note of love
in their fathers voice, and it found an echo in their own hearts.

Jinks! She _is_ an angel!

Roy, the taller of the two, had hair as brown as the hills around
him, and eyes but a trifle lighter in hue. He it was who had
inherited from his mother a fondness for literature, and, though
this last was carefully concealed, a liking for poetry.

Barbara Manley, before her marriage, had been a teacher of English
in a Denver school, and until she had met Bardwell Manley, poetry
had been her only sweetheart. Her eyes would shine with maternal
pride when she observed Roy reading a book of silly verses, as
Teddy called it.

Yet Roy was a real boy. More, he was a real Western boy, which is
saying a great deal. He was one of the best shots on the X Bar X
ranch, and although Teddy had a slight edge on him when it came to
riding, Roy could fork an unbroken bronco almost as well as any
man on the ranch. In build the boys were much alike--lean, wiry
products of range life.

Their father, Bardwell Manley, owned the X Bar X, a cattle ranch
some thirty hours ride on the cars west from Chicago on Rocky Run
River, a small stream. This ranch had been in the Manley family
since Temple Manley, the boys grandfather, now several years dead,
had settled there in 1868.

Roy and Teddy, together with their sister, Belle Ada, a girl now
twelve years old, had, of course, lived much of their lives on the X
Bar X. But as soon as they became old enough Mrs. Manley had
insisted that the two brothers go away to study in Denver, and the
last three winters Roy and Teddy had spent at the Hopper Academy.

Although their school days were happy enough, both boys were always
eager for summer to come, bringing with it vacation time, which
meant the ranch, with Flash and Star to gallop about on over many a
winding trail. Roy and Teddy had the real cowboys love for a good
pony and the wind-swept range. Though they did as well as most boys
at their studies and Roy rather better than the average, they were
both eager for the time to come when they could leave school and
follow in the footsteps of their father.

It was now the third week since school had closed, and today the
boys were riding to Eagles, a railroad station twelve miles from the
X Bar X, to meet Mr. Manley, who had stipulated that they must bring
his own special mount, General, for him to ride back. Of course they
could have made the trip in an auto, but Mr. Manley always said he
preferred hoss flesh to flivvers.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the character of Teddy and to provide some background information about him. The author achieves this by having Teddy reflect on a past incident in which he witnessed a man mistreating a horse. Teddy's reaction to this event reveals his character to be one who is kind-hearted and protective of animals.