Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
In front of it there was a wide platform with several desks. These
were occupied by attendants ready to feed data which the Solver might
require. Each desk had a microphone for that purpose, and there was one
gilded microphone near Sassoon. This one was for stating the question.
A large loudspeaker was suspended high up to deliver the Solver's
answers.

I once read that the ancient Greeks had a similar setup, called the
Delphic Oracle. Only some fellow got the wrong answer once and blew the
whole works some way.

"And now," Sassoon beamed on his audience, "we will demonstrate the
Solver in action. Perhaps we should allow our scientific friends the
honor of asking it the first riddle. After all, we owe science a great
deal, ha-ha!"

But none of the savants made a move. Maybe they felt balky. However,
Sassoon was too smart to allow any awkward pauses.

"But then, perhaps the honor should go to some less illustrious
person." His cold eyes had spotted the figure of a little man in
overalls, standing in a half-open doorway. The little man leaned on a
broom. I found out later he was Joe Squeeb, the janitor of Solver Hall.

"Since we must always remember our democratic traditions," Sassoon's
voice was slick as warm margarine, "I think our humblest worker should
have the great honor of asking the Solver its first public question.
Come here--you!"

The janitor dropped his broom and turned to flee, but Sassoon's voice,
with just a slight grate to it, pinned him in his tracks like a
mesmerized rabbit.

"Come, come. You, with the broom. Step up here!"

Joe Squeeb moved as if pulled by invisible chains. On the stage with
Sassoon, he blinked nervously at the audience. Then he suddenly
grinned, showing snaggy teeth, like a man who feels he's a goner.
Sassoon towered over him as they talked together for a moment before
Sassoon turned to face the audience again.

"This, ah, gentleman, is Joe Squeeb, our janitor. He has agreed to try
and stump the Solver, ha-ha!"

Sassoon's great hand smacked Squeeb on the back and nearly sent the
little man sprawling into the row of stony-faced scientists.

"And now, Mr. Squeeb--ask your question." Sassoon pushed him to the
gilded microphone.

[Illustration: "Ask it a question."]

Squeeb's Adam's apple bobbed. He shuffled his feet and twisted his
scrawny neck. I heard his panicky whisper to Sassoon.

"What'll I ask it?"

"Come, come!" Sassoon frowned heavily. "Don't jump around like that!
Ask it some question in arithmetic. Or maybe you know all the answers,
ho-ho!"

Squeeb rolled his eyes. I guess he wasn't used to thinking because he
acted as if he was in pain. Then, suddenly, his face lighted up.

"I got it," he said triumphantly. "I remember a problem that stuck all
of us."

Evidently he had dredged the depths of his mind for some long forgotten
problem of high school days.

"All right." Sassoon switched on the control. "Ask it, man, and get it
over!"

Squeeb gulped, gave his waiting audience a last hopeless grin, and
cleared his throat.

"Exactly what is the area of a circle," he asked brightly, "with a
radius of one inch?"

Bertrand, the great mathematician, sitting just in front of me, gave a
sort of gasp. Then the raspy notes of the Solver squawked a reply.

"The area of a circle with a radius of one inch is exactly--Three point
one, four, one, five--nine--two--six--"

Bertrand, the mathematician, had a notebook and pen out, scribbling as
the Solver announced the figures in a plodding monotone. He covered one
line and started on the next.

The audience began to stir impatiently. This was not very entertaining.
Sassoon frowned, quickly smiled again.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-Sassoon demonstrates the Solver, a machine that can answer any question, in front of a large audience.
-The janitor, Joe Squeeb, is chosen to ask the first question.
-Squeeb asks the Solver what the area of a circle with a radius of one inch is.
-The Solver correctly answers 3.1415926.
-The audience is unimpressed and Sassoon is frowning.