Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Tuesday, October 21st, 1913.--Night was falling. In the Rue August-Comte
I ran into groups of schoolboys coming out of the Lyce Montaigne. Oh,
schoolboys, scholars and otherwise, stick to your mathematics, enter the
Arts et Mtiers, keep to your counters, lest one day you, too, find
yourselves this comic puppet which skirts the Luxemburg and is lost in
the Rue d'Assas.

Always that "spirit of fancy" of which my kind tutor disapproved! Well,
let's give the poor thing a farewell treat and take it to dine on the
right bank.


Vignerte paused at this point of his story. Then he resumed:

"A bullet whistled past a short time back--there, just above our heads.
Did it occur to you that if you had happened to pop your head out at
that precise moment you'd have been laid out stiff! How far do you think
luck goes in life?"

"The other day," I answered, "there was trouble in the 11th Squad. No
one wanted to go on water fatigue. Each of them said it wasn't his turn.
As the squabble grew fiercer I intervened. I sent the first man I came
across, the one who had been protesting loudest, as it happened. He went
off grumbling that it wasn't fair. He left his cap behind him. When he
came back he couldn't find it. It had been pulverized by a shell and his
twelve comrades with it."

"We seem to agree," said Vignerte.

He resumed his story.


What impulse was urging me on that evening, I, who confined myself to
the tawdry delights of the Latin Quarter and never crossed the bridges
at night? I remember I tried a one-man orgy at the "Grand V." Then I
thought I'd like to take my coffee on the terrace of the Weber.
Pretending I could refuse myself nothing, I passed before the lamps of
the Olympia with the fixed intention of granting myself the joys of the
promenade. Rather excited after my bottle of Barsac I walked very
straight, staring brazenly at the girls.

It was cold. I went back to Weber's and at once the lights and the
throng restored my natural timidity. I sat down humbly in a corner with
that lack of ease characteristic of a man who is afraid that people will
notice he is not used to being there.

Opposite me a group of young people were making a good deal of noise.
Enviously I studied their clothes and that air of easy assurance, the
sure sign of a happiness which, perhaps, I should never attain. Truly I
was not exactly made for the University, I whom learned expositions,
bibliographies and works of reference left sceptical, I whose heart
almost beat quicker at the sight of a well-cut waistcoat, a well-tied
tie and elegant socks visualized under well-creased trousers!

They were a party of four, one a woman, pink and pretty, in her furs.
Painted a little, perhaps, though I've never minded that. She was seated
next to one of the handsome young men, and facing me. The other two had
their backs to me, but in the mirror I could see their faces, slightly
flushed by a good dinner, which was then approaching its end.

That evening I realized the humiliation of those who go for their coffee
to a fashionable restaurant. Said I to myself: "You'd far better have
stayed at home, dined anywhere, gone to bed and slept, yes, slept. Sleep
is the poor man's haven. You oughtn't to have come here."

And yet.... It was gradually beginning to dawn upon me that one of the
men with his back to me was studying me closely in the mirror, when he
got up and came over to me.

"Vignerte!"

"Ribeyre!"

I had come across this Ribeyre during my advanced rhetoric course. He
had already obtained his _licence_, and was, like me, a candidate for
Normale, though he displayed that indifference to results which comes
from a private income and ambitions in other directions.

"What are you up to?"

"You can see for yourself," I said, somewhat stung. Then I added
quickly:

"What about you? Anything new since Henri IV.?"

"Don't mention that awful hole, old boy. Talk about instructing youth! I
should have made a mess of things if I'd listened to them...."

He, too, added:


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is conversational and colloquial. There is a sense of humor and irony throughout. The point of view is first person.