Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
IX


A RIFT IN THE LUTE

THEY were married. And in swift procession the months followed the
weeks.

At the Circle Diamond, Ruth queened it with a nave childishness from
which her youth had not yet escaped. Eagerly she played at housekeeping
for a fortnight under the amused eyes of Mrs. Stovall, who had been
employed by McCoy to do the cooking, her term as postmistress having
expired. The next game that drew her was the remodelling of the house.
Carpenters and decorators from Wagon Wheel came up, filled the place
with litter and confusion, and under the urge of the young mistress
transformed the interior of the unsightly dwelling into a delightful
home. An absorbing period of needlework followed. New and pretty dresses
took shape and were exhibited to Rowan, who did not have to feign
admiration. For if she had been Paris gowned the slender grace of the
girl could not have been enhanced in his eyes. She had a native instinct
for style, a feeling for the harmonies and values of dress. Whatever she
wore became an expression of her personality.

Ruths husband confessed to himself with a sinking heart that she did
not really belong on a frontier ranch. The girl wife brought to her new
home all the fastidiousness that had charmed him. Her sewing room was
cheerful with Indian paint brushes and columbines, her little bedroom a
study in delicate blues. He was glad of that. He did not want the dust
of the commonplace to dull her vividness.

It pleased him that she accepted lightly all responsibility except that
of having a good time. She had shipped her own piano to Wyoming, and she
played a good deal. Sometimes she read a little, more often rode or
hunted. Occasionally Rowan joined her on these excursions, but usually
she went alone. For business more and more absorbed his time. The war
between the sheep and cattle interests was becoming acute. Ranchmen,
watching the range jealously, saw themselves being pushed closer to
bankruptcy by Tait and his associates. Already there had been sheep
raids. Cattle had been found dead at the water holes. Bullets had sung
back and forth.

But though Rowan could spend little time with the girl he had married, a
deep tenderness permeated his thought of her. It was still a miracle to
him that she had come to the Circle Diamond as his wife.

When he rode the range he carried with him mental etchings of her little
gracesthe swiftness of the ready smile, the turn of the small,
beautifully poised head, the virginal shyness that always captivated
him. He missed sheer joy because he was profoundly unsure of holding
her. Ruth, he felt, was in love with life, and he was merely a detail of
the Great Adventure. Some day she might grow weary, take wings, and fly.
Meanwhile a certain diffidence born of reticence sealed his lips. He
found it impossible to express the emotion he knew so poignantly. It was
of the hill code that a man must not show his naked soul.

On an August morning Ruth, dawdling over breakfast alone, glimpsed
through the dining-room window a rider galloping toward the ranch. Since
Rowan had been in the saddle and away long before she was awake, the
young woman answered the hail from without by going to the door.

The horseman had dismounted, flung the bridle rein to the ground, and
was coming up the porch steps when Ruth appeared. He lifted the broad
hat from his curly head and bowed.

Rowan at home? he asked.

No, he isnt.

Swift anger blazed in the eyes of the girl. She had seen this slender,
black-haired stranger twice before, once in the orchard of the Dude
Ranch, again astride a volcanic bronco in the arena at Bad Ax.

Some wise instinct warned him not to smile. He spoke gravely. Sorry.
Ive got news for him. Its important. Where is he?

I dont know.

Did he say when he would be back?

No. Ruth cut short the conversation curtly. Ill send one of the boys
to talk with you.

She turned and walked into the house, leaving him on the porch. Out of
the tail of her eye she caught sight of her husband riding into the yard
with his foreman. From the dining-room window she presently watched
McCoy canter away in the company of Silcott.

Ruth was annoyed, even though she recognized that her vexation at Rowan
was not quite fair. It was true that he had lately fallen into a habit
of disappearing for a day at a time without explanation of his absence.
He was worried about something, and he had not made a confidante of her.
This was bad enough, but what she resented most was the fact that he was
on the best of terms with the handsome young scamp who had kissed her so
blithely in the orchard. Of course she had no right to blame her husband
for this, since she had never told him of the episode. Yet she did. For
her mind moved by impulse and not by logic.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

Ruth: the girl wife, newly married to Rowan and living on a frontier ranch. She is fastidious and has a good sense of style.
Rowan: Ruth's husband, a ranchman who is increasingly preoccupied with business. He is tenderly in love with Ruth but reticent about expressing his emotions.
The black-haired stranger: a man who has news for Rowan and is on friendly terms with him. Ruth has seen him twice before and does not like him.