What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The Grand Duke of Lautenburg is the immediate vassal of the King of
Wrtemberg, and mediate vassal of the German Emperor.

The State of Lautenburg sends three deputies to the Reichstag. Two of
them are agrarians; the third, representing Sandau, is a Socialist. All
three sit of right in the Ducal Diet, which meets twice a year at the
Castle of Lautenburg. The President of the Municipal Council of
Lautenburg and two councillors elected by their colleagues are also
_ex-officio_ members of the Diet. The other members are elected, on a
narrow franchise, by the general population of the Grand Duchy. The
Grand Duke is President. A permanent committee of six members, somewhat
similar to our departmental commissions, dispatches current business
when the Diet is not in session.




7. SUMMARY OF LIFE AT LAUTENBURG


Four times a week I gave Duke Joachim his lessons, two of history, one
of philosophy and one of literature. For this purpose I went to his room
in the right wing of the palace. You will remember that his father
occupied the middle portion, while the left wing was reserved
exclusively for the Grand Duchess Aurora. The walls of Duke Joachim's
study are hung with the best German maps made by Kiepert himself. There
are two portraits, one of the Grand Duke, and the other of his first
wife, _ne_ Countess von Tepwitz, a worthy Bavarian with a Luther's
cross, who died three years ago. Duke Joachim is her living image.

You couldn't have a more tractable pupil than this young German duke. He
knows a good deal already, but unfortunately it's all in the same class.
I shouldn't be at all surprised if the State of Lautenburg-Detmold
lapses to the imperial crown on the death of the Grand Duke
Frederick-Augustus.

Those who have always had all they want will probably bridle at the
suggestion that a life with every material comfort is enough for
happiness. Nevertheless, I was thoroughly happy. I had nothing but my
professional duties to worry about. Two or three books, unknown over
here, practically performed them for me.

I was very happy, I repeat. Lunch with the Grand Duke was still a treat
in store, but I had already dined three times with Colonel von Wendel.
His wife took a great fancy to me. I lent her several books I had really
intended for the Grand Duchess. She was a kindly soul, and, besides, it
was just as well to be on good terms with the Colonel.

I generally lunched with Cyrus Beck, Kessel, and the staff. Little Hagen
came every now and then. When he did, the others chuckled maliciously,
and said that the Grand Duchess must have let him out for the day. In
the evening every one vanished. Most of them had friends in the town. I
usually stayed behind with the professor, and sometimes, not always, the
taciturn Kessel. Cyrus Beck then monopolized the conversation with a
recital of his woes. His pupil made no progress. Besides, tutoring
wasn't his job! The Grand Duke Rudolph, now, _did_ know how to treat a
professor. He was a scholar!

I was given to understand that as a geographer he had scarcely a rival.

Kessel, finishing his liqueur, broke in calmly:

"A geographer who didn't understand the handling of a field gun."

Cyrus retorted in scorn:

"Then you prefer the present Grand Duke?"

"I never knew His Highness the Grand Duke Rudolph," replied Kessel,
unruffled. "I only know that the first duty of a Grand Duke is to _be_ a
Grand Duke, which means perfect familiarity with artillery, heavy and
light, so that geographers can work in peace and safety."

The odd thing is that the professor poured out his complaints to Kessel,
of whom he stood in visible awe, rather than to me, a Frenchman. I tell
you the loyalty of these folk is beyond belief. We in France are never
happy except when at loggerheads. But _their_ habit of mind, backed by
the Imperial Police, who are admirably organized, makes them sheep,
compared to which Panurge's flock was imaginative and refractory.

In the daytime my principal amusement was strolling in Lautenburg. The
splendid German uniforms delighted me, though I had moments of dismay
over that prodigious display of discipline. Twice a week the band of the
182nd played in the Knigsplatz, opposite the theatre. I liked the
charming _gaucherie_ of the group of girls I passed. They recalled and
exemplified the truth of the old cavalry General von Dewitz's remarks to
his aide-de-camp:

"These girls are thoroughbreds, my boy, a real treat to watch! None of
your faked demi-women, but mothers, real mothers. I'd answer for whole
generations of them. Just look at that buxom wench down there! There's
red cheeks for you, and what a stride! A yard if it's an inch! What a
treat for an old soldier like me. I like looking at 'em!"[1]


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to provide a detailed description of the Grand Duke's palace and the life of the people in Lautenburg. The author achieves this goal by providing a detailed description of the palace, the Grand Duke's daily routine, and the people of Lautenburg.