What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"Yes, miss; they are a sort of monkeys--blue monkeys--and carry
sticks same as the real African ourangoutangs do.  And can't they use
them too!"

"Are they very ugly?"

"Awful, and venomous too; and at night they have one eye that shines
in the dark like a wild cat's, and you've got to stand clear when
that eye's on you."

"Well," said Etheldene, "I wouldn't like to be lost in a place like
that.  I'd rather be bushed where I am.  But I think, Mr. Brown, you
are laughing at me.  Are there any snakes in Whitechapel?"

"No, thank goodness; no, miss.  I can't stand snakes much."

"There was a pretty tiger crept past you just as I was talking
though," she said with great coolness.

Harry jumped and shook himself.  Etheldene laughed.

"It is far enough away by this time," she remarked.  "I saw something
ripple past you, Harry, like a whip-thong.  I thought my eyes had
made it."

"You brought it along with the wood perhaps," said Craig quietly.

"'Pon my word," cried Harry, "you're a lot of Job's comforters, all
of you.  D'ye know I won't sleep one blessed wink to-night.  I'll
fancy every moment there is a snake in my blanket or under the
saddle."

"They won't come near you, Mr. Brown," said Craig.  "They keep as far
away from Englishmen as possible."

"Not always," said Bill.  "Maybe ye wouldn't believe it, but I was
bitten and well-nigh dead, and it was a tiger as done it.  And if I
ain't English, then there ain't an Englishman 'twist 'ere and
Melbourne.  See that, miss?"  He held up a hand in the firelight as
he spoke.

"Why," said Etheldene, "you don't mean to say the snake bit off half
your little finger?"

"Not much I don't; but he bit me on the finger, miss.  I was a
swagsman then, and was gathering wood, as we were to-night, when I
got nipped, and my chum tightened a morsel of string round it to keep
the poison away from the heart, then he laid the finger on a stone
and chopped it off with his spade.  Fact what I'm telling you.  But
the poison got in the blood somehow all the same.  They half carried
me to Irish Charlie's hotel.  Lucky, that wasn't far off.  Then they
stuck the whiskey into me."

"Did the whiskey kill the poison?" said Archie.

"Whiskey kill the poison!  Why, young sir, Charlie's whiskey would
have killed a kangaroo!  But nothing warmed me that night; my blood
felt frozen.  Well, sleep came at last, and, oh, the dreams!  'Twere
worse ten thousand times than being wi' Daniel in the den o' lions.
Next day nobody hardly knew me; I was blue and wrinkled.  I had aged
ten years in a single night."

"I say," said Harry, "suppose we change the subject."

"And I say," said Craig, "suppose we make the beds."

He got up as he spoke, and began to busy himself in preparations for
Etheldene's couch.  It was easily and simply arranged, but the
arrangement nevertheless showed considerable forethought.

He disappeared for a few minutes, and returned laden with all the
necessary paraphernalia.  A seven-foot pole was fastened to a tree;
the other end supported by a forked stick, which he sharpened and
drove into the ground.  Some grass was spread beneath the pole, a
blanket thrown carefully over it, the upturned saddle put down for a
pillow, and a tent formed by throwing over the pole a loose piece of
canvas that he had taken from his saddle-bow, weighted down by some
stones, and the whole was complete.

"Now, Baby," said Craig, handing Etheldene a warm rug, "will you be
pleased to retire?"

"Where is my flat candlestick?" she answered.

Gentleman Craig pointed to the Southern Cross.

"Yonder," he said.  "Is it not a lovely one?"

"It puts me in mind of old, old times," said Etheldene with a sigh.
"And you're calling me 'Baby' too.  Do you remember, ever so long ago
in the Bush, when I was a baby in downright earnest, how you used to
sing a lullaby to me outside my wee tent?"


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author achieves this by describing the location and the preparations for Etheldene's bed. We also learn about the characters' personalities and their relationships with each other.