Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Gowru shrugged. Rains thought he probably could, though he might not be
aware of it yet. But though they'd be safe from the mental onslaught of
Gommaf, there was a catch. Sooner or later they'd have to have food and
water, the screen would come down and then they'd be at the mercy of
the Indian mentalists.

There had to be another way and he thought he saw it. "How long can you
keep this up?"

"For days," sat Gowru. "Once it's in existence I merely have to touch
it now and then to keep it up."

"Good. Make a small hole so you can see where you're going and start
out across the plain." It was late afternoon and would soon be dark....

"There's an army camp ahead," said Gowru.

"National guard?"

"Multi-national guard. This is India."

Rains sighed. There was no use asking what was on either side and
behind them--more troops. Planes droned overhead. Mobile searchlights
were trained on them. Fortunately, there were no big guns in this area.
Perhaps Gowru could build up the image to withstand even the direct hit
of a large caliber shell, but the concussion wouldn't be pleasant. "If
there's an army camp there must be a trench," Rains said. "Do you see
any?"

Gowru Chandit looked. "There's a trench."

"Angle the tank so we'll pass directly over it." He paused. "Can you
project this image?"

"Keep it in existence and control where it goes though we're no longer
inside? Yes, I can do that."

"Fine. And can you make a hole in the bottom as the tank shape passes
over the trench?"

"I can."

"That's what I thought. My idea is that we drop into the trench and the
tank continues on. It goes into the forest beyond the camp and as soon
as all the troops have followed, you destroy the image."

"Instantly?"

"If you can."

Gowru breathed gustily. "I can create it instantly, but the reverse is
not true. It has to fade away, and that takes time."

Rains didn't want that, since it would reveal the nature of the tank.
"Is there any other way to dispose of it?"

"I think so," said Gowru. "I can project it into the forest and let it
rise later with a trail of fire. I can imitate a rocket."

A rocket tank would give them something to think about. "Excellent. But
remember to drop out of sight in the trench. The troops on foot will be
concerned with the tank. They won't notice us in the darkness."

Gowru nodded and they went on. Presently he spoke. "Here we are."

They dropped. The trench was deep and it was near a swamp. They fell
into half a foot of water. Overhead, the troops marched away.

[Illustration: They fell into half a foot of water, while overhead,
troops were marching.]

Gowru straightened and looked out. He climbed up and extended his hand,
pulling Rains to the top.

As they stood there, a trail of fire rose over the forest, the tank
image bursting upward and disappearing. It was too soon. The troops
wouldn't find anything though they'd scour around. They'd have to
return. Rains was aching to empty his shoes of cold water.

Together they started out, slinking through the deserted camp. They
hurried, but they didn't have much leeway. Soldiers began straggling
back. There was no time to look for a trail through the swamp, if there
was a trail.

They crashed through a dense fringe of vines and fell into the swamp.
They had been wet, now they became drenched. Mud clung to them,
sticky, foul-smelling slime. Rains could imagine snakes and unspeakable
vermin crawling away from them or toward them as they crashed onward.
Branches slashed at them, mud sucked them down. Gasping, they
floundered away.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a touch of horror. It is written in third person point of view, and the tone is one of fear and danger.