What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"Tally ho!  Yoi--cks!" he shouted.  Then clattered down the avenue,
cleared the low, white gate, and speedily disappeared across the
fields.

Archie had promised himself a rare day's run, and he was not
disappointed.  The fox was an old one and a wily one--and, I might
add, a very gentlemanly old fox--and he led the field one of the
prettiest dances that Dawson, the greyest-headed huntsman in the
North, ever remembered; but there was no kill.  No; Master Reynard
knew precisely where he was going, and got home all right, and went
quietly to sleep as soon as the pack drew off.

The consequence was that Archie found himself still ten miles from
home as gloaming was deepening into night.  Another hour he thought
would find him at Burley Old Farm.  But people never know what is
before them, especially hunting people.

It had been observed by old Kate, that after Archie left in the
morning, Bounder seemed unusually sad.  He refused his breakfast, and
behaved so strangely that the superstitious dame was quite alarmed.

"I'll say naething to the ladies," she told one of the servants,
"but, woe is me!  I fear that something awfu' is gain tae happen.  I
houp the young laddie winna brak his neck.  He rode awa' sae
daft-like.  He is just his faither a' ower again."

Bounder really had something on his mind; for dogs do think far more
than we give them credit for.  Well, the Squire was off, and also Mr.
Walton, and now his young master had flown.  What did it mean?  Why
he would find out before he was many hours older.  So ran Bounder's
cogitations.

To think was to act with Bounder; so up he jumped, and off he
trotted.  He followed the scent for miles; then he met an errant
collie, and forgetting for a time all about his master, he went off
with him.  There were many things to be done, and Bounder was not in
a hurry.  They chased cows and sheep together merely for mischief's
sake; they gave chase to some rabbits, and when the bunnies took to
their holes, they spent hours in a vain attempt to dig them out.  The
rabbits knew they could never succeed, so they quietly washed their
faces and laughed at them.

They tired at last, and with their heads and paws covered with mould,
commenced to look for mice among the moss.  They came upon a wild
bees' home in a bank, and tore this up, killing the inmates bee by
bee as they scrambled out wondering what the racket meant.  They
snapped at the bees who were returning home, and when both had their
lips well stung they concluded to leave the hive alone.  Honey wasn't
very nice after all, they said.  At sunset they bathed in a mill-dam
and swam about till nearly dusk, because the miller's boy was
obliging enough to throw in sticks for them.  Then the miller's boy
fell in himself, and Bounder took him out and laid him on the bank to
drip, neither knowing nor caring that he had saved a precious life.
But the miller's boy's mother appeared on the scene and took the
weeping lad away, inviting the dogs to follow.  She showered
blessings on their heads, especially on "the big black one's," as the
urchin called Bounder, and she put bread and milk before them and
bade them eat.  The dogs required no second bidding, and just as
Bounder was finishing his meal the sound of hoofs was heard on the
road, and out bounced Bounder, the horse swerved, the rider was
thrown, and the dog began to wildly lick his face.

"So it's you, is it, Bounder?" said Archie.  "A nice trick.  And now
I'll have to walk home a good five miles."

Bounder backed off and barked.  Why did his master go off and leave
him then?  That is what the dog was saying.

"Come on, boy," said Archie.  "There's no help for it; but I do feel
stiff."

They could go straight over the hill, and through the fields and the
wood, that was one consolation.

So off they set, and Archie soon forgot his stiffness and warmed to
his work.

Bounder followed close to his heels, as if he were a very old and a
very wise dog indeed; and harrying bees' hives, or playing with
millers' boys, could find no place in his thoughts.

Archie lost his way once or twice, and it grew quite dark.  He was
wondering what he should do when he noticed a light spring up not far
away, and commenced walking towards it.  It came from the little
window of a rustic cottage, and the boy knew at once now in which way
to steer.

Curiosity, however, impelled him to draw near to the window.  He gave
just one glance in, but very quickly drew back.  Sitting round a
table was a gang of half a dozen poachers.  He knew them as the worst
and most notorious evil-doers in all the country round.  They were
eating and drinking, and guns stood in the corners, while the men
themselves seemed ready to be off somewhere.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the conflict that will drive the plot forward. The conflict is between the protagonist, Archie, and a gang of poachers.