Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
We are upon the old overland route, Nathan said. Over this road many
emigrants have toiled along, suffering and dying, many of them at the
hands of the Indians. Do you see that ridge of earth which seems to have
been artificially thrown up there? That was undoubtedly a sort of
breastwork hastily made by a party of emigrants who were assaulted at
this place.

Lissa shuddered. Can it be possible I am really in this wild land of
which I have read. I wonder if any were killed here, and if the ground
has been soaked with their blood. How strange it all seems! I can
imagine so much since seeing that Indian. He does not look much like
those I have seen at Niagara, selling bead-work.

Not much; and you will receive another impression should you ever see a
band out on a war expedition against a hostile band, fully decorated
with warpaint and feathers. They really look formidable then.

Lissa shivered again.

We have made good time to-day. How far do you think we have driven?
Nathan asked as, toward evening, they approached the suburbs of a small
town.

I am sure I have no idea. The ponies have trotted steadily all day.
These mustangs are good travelers, if they are small.

They have endurance. I have been out on a hunt with the Indians when we
have kept in the saddle for a hundred miles at a time, the ponies loping
or running most of the way.

But how could you stand it to ride so far?

O, I can sleep in the saddle if necessary. One never knows what he can
do until he is put to the test. But I think we have come about
forty-five miles to-day. Yonder is the town. They are just lighting it.
How pleasant it looks, doesnt it, this evidence of life after so many
miles of uninhabited wilds.

The ride has been perfectly delightful, said Lissa. I never better
enjoyed a day in my life.

They drew rein at a freshly painted building, bearing a sign Badger
House. The landlady was evidently a Yankee, for she began a series of
questions to Lissa. Where did they hail from? Where were they going? Had
she ever been West before?

To Lissas responses she vouchsafed a consolatory remark: Well, Im
kind of sorry for you. There is nothin but work out here. Ye dont look
as if yed seen much hardships. Yell git awful homesick, I reckon. What
with the poor crops and the hot winds, and the grasshoppers, there aint
much to look ford to. After which she left the room to see to their
supper.

The next morning they started early, that they might get well on their
way before the intense heat of mid-day. They had been traveling for some
time, when Lissa suddenly started and grasped Nathans arm.

Stop, stop! she cried; Ive been here before. I know just what is
before us! Ah, how can it beand yet, yet, Ive seen it all before. Just
beyond that large tree the ground descends to a river. There is a marshy
strip of ground at the left, and a log lying diagonally, thus. Lissa
indicated the position by crossing her hands. She was excited and eager.
What does it all mean? Am I, too, clairvoyant?

We will see, he said, chirruping to his horses. They soon came to the
height overlooking the river flats. Before them lay the scene Lissa had
described. The tears started in her eyes.

O Nathan, have I ever lived in another form than this? I certainly
could never have been here before. I cannot understand it.

Not unless you have been here in a dream. At the word, Lissa started.

Ah, I know now. I remember! It is a dream! It is written down in my
journal. I wrote it when I first began to keep a journal, many years
ago. The dream made such an impression upon me, I wrote it down, and a
description of the scene. I have frequently read it over since.

What happened here, do you remember?

No, I could not remember at the time, but I awoke with great fright,
trying to cry out, with the feeling that I had been passing through some
terrible experience, with this scene clearly imprinted upon my
consciousness.

It is a very strange coincidence, Lissa, but this is the place where a
white man was flayed alive a number of years ago by the Indians.

Ah, I remember reading of it, and how horrible it was.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very matter-of-fact and matter-of-factly descriptive. There is no real emotion or feeling conveyed in the writing.