Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
But McCauley would not see Africa again. The whiteness which was the
horizon turned dim where the ship's bow aimed, and the dimness spread
to the left. The edge of the round world turned black. It was Earth's
crawling shadow creating night. Darkness sped toward the ship, still
high above the last slightest trace of atmosphere and glittering
intolerably in the unshielded glare of the sun.

"It looks like we're all set, Furness," McCauley said with
satisfaction. "We can relax, now, for all of twenty minutes."

Furness did not answer. There was no sensation of weight, of course.
Nothing weighed anything. Nothing could be considered light or heavy.
The difference between a copper penny and the ship itself was purely
imaginary. They had different masses, but both would weigh the
same--zero. McCauley suddenly turned off the silent air-circulator in
the cabin. He struck a match. The flame flared, but not as a rising
leaf shape. It was a perfect ball of incandescence. But it did not
continue to burn. It went out, and there was a ball of white smokiness
where the flame had been.

"I've heard that'd happen. I wanted to try it," McCauley said amusedly.

A match requires oxygen in which to burn. On the ground, the chemically
fostered first flame of the match-head heats the air, which rises and
is replaced, whereby fresh oxygen reaches the place of combustion and
supports it. But in the X-21, in free fall, hot air was no lighter
than cold. It did not rise. The match exhausted the oxygen around it
and went out. McCauley turned the air-circulator on again lest he and
Furness be similarly surrounded by vitiated air.

"Queer, eh?" said McCauley. Then he looked at Furness. Furness' eyes
seemed filled with suffering. His pallor was deathlike.

"What's the matter?" McCauley asked.

Purely by instinct he raced his eyes across the instruments. They said
nothing they should not.

"Furness!" snapped McCauley. "What's the matter? What's happened to
you?"

With an air of terrible effort--though nothing weighed as much as a
hair--Furness moved his left hand away from his side. It came away
filled with blood. There was an ominous dark-red patch on the flight
suit, and something seemed to be welling slowly out of a puncture in
the cloth. The hole was the size of a bullet hole.

"Just before ... take-off," said Furness thinly, "the rocket fuel that
was ... bled through the fuel pipes ... went off when you tested ...
the engine. It exploded. It threw pebbles like bullets. One ... ripped
the general's hat. One ... hit me."

McCauley swore. He felt a sort of bitter anger. Of all the places where
instant medical attention for an injured man was impossible, the worst
was the close, air-tight cabin of a ship out of atmosphere, traveling
at some thousands of miles per hour and heading into night. Descending
was out of the question. It was impossible to turn back.

"Let's look at that," said McCauley harshly. "Maybe we can check the
bleeding somehow.--Why didn't you report you were hurt? Didn't you know
you were risking your life?"

"I suppose," said Furness weakly, but with irony, "that you aren't
risking yours!"

Then he winced a little as McCauley's finger explored the hole in
the tough cloth. When the rocket fuel exploded on the surface of the
ground, the impact of a pebble would have the effect of a bullet. It
would numb more than it hurt. Furness knew he'd been hit, of course,
but the ship was ready to take off, and the wound might only be
trivial. To delay take-off for examination of what might be entirely
insignificant would earn him McCauley's contempt--or so Furness had
believed. And Furness was in no state of mind to risk that. Nothing
short of absolute inability to hide his injury would have made him
admit that he'd been hurt or even hit. So he'd climbed in the ship, and
done his work steadily until this instant, all the time covering the
wound with his hand lest McCauley discover it.

There was no room in the cabin for much movement. McCauley tried to
enlarge the hole, but the cloth was reinforced with wire and could
not be torn. Furthermore, he had nothing to work with if he could get
at the wound--nothing for bandages, nothing to check the bleeding,
nothing.... He swore deeply.

Then he felt for a familiar iron ring and pulled it. A tiny pilot chute
leaped from his chute-pack. It was designed to pull out his main chute
if he had to jump. He tore at it with his fingers.

"We'll pack it anyhow," he mumbled as he ripped strips from the small
expanse of nylon. "At least check the bleeding."


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

- McCauley and Furness are in the X-21 ship, headed into space
- Furness is injured from when the rocket fuel exploded on the ground before take-off
- McCauley tries to help Furness, but there is no way to get medical attention
- They pack the wound and hope for the best