Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
It is often your stupidest boy who is most likeable in a helpless
sort of way.  Not that Rob Fraser was a nincompoop, but there was a
confiding innocency in his shadowless blue eyes that only a rascal
could have turned to his own advantage.

Rob was not accounted promising at school, and during the study of
such subjects as Latin and Greek his mind appeared to be focussed
upon the next county, nor was he regarded as reliable at games, for
his movements were in tune with his thoughts, which were more often
on the trout in the pool than on the ball in his hand.

It was this abstraction that divided him from the other boys of his
age, not because he was unpopular, not because he lacked pluck, but
just because he was silent for days at a time, and made no
confidences.  It was a state of mind that drove his aunt, good woman,
to a kind of arctic fury.  For years she strove to beat it out of
him, but it served no purpose except to send him upon the hills for
days together.

There comes a time when you can't beat a boy larger than yourself.
Not that Rob would have complained or refused to submit.  He was
indifferent to such things.  He had plenty of spirit of a dogged and
inflammatory character, but it did not lie that way.  If it consoled
his aunt to beat him, then let her do so by all means.  For all he
knew it might be the time-honoured custom of maiden aunts.

Miss Macpherson was, above all, a practical woman, and it was Rob's
dreamy obliviousness to facts that fretted her.  To sit watching
muirfowl for hours together was more than any sensible body could
tolerate.  And that was Rob all over.  He knew where the two-pound
trout lay in the burn up in the hills.  He could bring a curlew from
the next glen in a perfect frenzy of agitation to learn what was the
matter.  He would spend nights together watching fox cubs playing
under the moon.  But of school and its tasks he had no tolerance.

He was lying on the bank of a stream that spring day when it all came
about.  He did not hear the footsteps nor did he see the shadow on
the water, but of a sudden there stood a very large and pleasant
gentleman beside him, dressed in riding clothes, and with a handsome
claymore at his side.

"Cuddling?" said he very affably.  "I mind the day when I could lay
the bonnie ones in rows upon the bank."

Rob stared at him with his ingenuous eyes.

"It is fine to be young," went on the strange gentleman, "but there
were no days like the old days."

"Why do you say that?" asked Rob.

The stranger suppressed a smile at his eager curiosity.

"They have said that," he replied, "since Robert the Bruce heard it
from his grandfather."

"But were the old days so fine?"

"Fine enough," he replied absently; "fine enough and yet none sae
fine either--there is a bit tune I'm minded of..." and he took a
curious little instrument out of his pocket made of reed, shaped like
a piccolo.

Then sitting upon a rock he played a tender little air with one eye
glued to Rob to see how he took it, and his head cocked very drolly
upon the side.

"There's the 'Brogues of Fortune' for ye," he said.

"Is it a very old tune?" asked Rob, greatly taken with the gentleman.

"As old as the hills, laddie, and that's past counting--as old as the
burn and the shadows on the brae, for it's part and parcel of them
all, just strung together by mysel'."

"You made it?"

"Hech! there's nothing to skirl about.  I make them all day.  I canna
eat my dinner but my feet are dirling to a tune that has no name and
must have the go-by until I have a spare moment.  Make them indeed!"

"What else do you do?" asked Rob, in his innocent blunt way.

The stranger laughed.

"I can hear the owl passing over the brae in the night, I can see the
stag hunkered amongst the crags, I can catch the otter at his play."

"Can you call the weasel from his hole?" asked Rob.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

A stranger approaches Rob Fraser, who is lying on the bank of a stream, and strikes up a conversation with him. The stranger is a very affable man, and tells Rob that he remembers when he was young and used to catch fish in the stream. The stranger then asks Rob if he thinks the old days were better than the present. Rob is eager to know more, and the stranger tells him that the old days were fine, but that there is a tune he remembers that is even better. The stranger then takes out a reed instrument and plays a tune for Rob. The stranger tells Rob that he makes tunes like this all day long. Rob is fascinated and asks the stranger what else he can do. The stranger tells him that he can hear the owl passing over the brae in the night, see the stag hunkered amongst the crags, and catch the otter at his play. The stranger then asks Rob if he can call the weasel from his hole.