What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XV


At last it was over. The intolerable evening had dragged itself to
an end. Topham had laughed and joked and made merry far beyond his
custom or his nature, trying to dull the sting at his heart and to
conceal from Stites and his companions the misery that oppressed him.
He had met scores of men and women; had received dozens of informal
invitations from the men; and had laid the foundations of many
friendships.

But all the while he was longing to be alone--to get time to think
what was portended by this amazing apparition of the woman he loved.
At last, when the throng had thinned; when the last of his new-made
friends had nodded himself away; when even Stites had left him with
a warning that on the morrow he would show him some stunts, Topham
wandered to the edge of the broad terrace in front of the hotel and sat
down to think.

The night was redolent of perfume. The gardens--the wonderful Japanese
gardens where all sense of distance is lost and one wanders through
miles of woodland, climbs mountains, and crosses lakes, all in the
space of a few yards--stretched around him, limitless and mysterious.
No moon shone, but the planets globed themselves in the star-dusted
heavens and cast a pale radiance over meadow and wood. A soft night
wind, warm and caressing, whispered of the age-old mystery of the east.
From far away rose the murmur of the city stirring in its invisible
homes. The night birds called from the bushes.

Insensibly the calm stole on Tophams senses, and his whirling thoughts
composed themselves. The Countess had reached Tokio before him; from
what Stites said she had been there for several weeks at least; most
likely she had left Berlin almost as soon as he had, and had come by
way of Russia and Port Arthur.

Why was she there? Had she come because of him or for some reason of
her own? Had she known that he was under orders for Tokio before she
met him in Berlin and could her kindness have concealed some plan to
use him--him a naval officer in the United States service? Or was
she really ignorant that he was bound for the east. He could not
remember having told her, and she might very well not have known his
destination--might have understood him to be permanently attached
to the Nevada. Remembering what she had said of a task that she was
working out, he could not but think that her presence in Japan had to
do with that task.

If she were on an errand of her own, what was it? He remembered that
Rutile had believed that the Kaiser would set conditions for the
restoration of the lost duchy; probably the countess was trying to
fulfill these conditions.

But what were the Kaisers conditions. Shrink as he might from
questioning the acts of the woman he loved, he could not forget the
role that Stites had ascribed to her. Putting beside this her own
assertions that association with her spelled peril to his honor the
obvious explanation was that she was engaged in some proceeding
inimical to his country--some conspiracy that it was his duty as an
officer of the United States to discover and to crush.

He set himself to studying out the possible objects of a possible
conspiracy. Clearly it involved Japan. But how? The obvious explanation
was that it had to do with trade--the open door--Manchuria--China; but
somehow Topham doubted whether the obvious explanation were the true
one. He remembered Stitess assertion that Japan was preparing for war
with the United States. But what had Germany to do in such a war, even
if it should be contemplated? What could she possibly gain that would
balance even the loss that would result from the disturbance of trade?
The Kaiser had been angry when the United States seized the Philippines
years before, but having held his wrath then, how could he hope to
profit by it now? If Japan got the better of the struggle, the spoils
would go to her and not to Germany. On its face, a Japanese-German war
conspiracy against the United States was preposterous.

Yet he could not doubt that Germany was in some way for some reason
involved. But how? But how? Mortified self pride played no part in
Tophams reflections. Although the Countess had cut him in the
dining-room, decidedly, unmistakably, the fact had almost ceased to
trouble him. She might have very good reasons for not desiring to seem
to know him at that moment; he was content to wait for an explanation.
Besides, he had more important things to think about.

A clatter of clogs on the stones of the terrace and a rustling of
garments aroused him and he looked around to find a Japanese maid
bowing profoundly in the starlight just behind his right shoulder.

Hello! he exclaimed, startled. What want?

The girl closed her fan with a clash just as he had seen her sisters do
it many a time on the stage in America.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the conflict. The author achieves this by describing the setting in detail and by introducing the character of the Countess.