What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
My light shield was on my left forearm and in my right hand I grasped my
two-edged sword. A pressure of my knees, an inclination of my body, a
word in his pointed ear were all that was needed to make Red Lightning
respond to my every wish, even though the reins hung loose upon his
withers.

The fellow bore down upon me with a loud yell and Red Lightning leaped
to meet him. The Kalkars point was set straight at my chest and I had
only a sword on that side to deflect it, and at that I think I might
have done so had I cared to try, even though the Kalkar carries a heavy
lance and this one was backed by a heavy man and a heavy horse. With my
left hand I grasped Red Lightnings mane and at the instant that the
Kalkar thought to see his point tear through my chest I swung from my
saddle and lay flat against Red Lightnings near side, while the Kalkar
and his spear brushed harmlessly past an empty saddle. Empty for but an
instant though. Swinging back to my seat in the instant that I wheeled
Red Lightning I was upon the Kalkar from the rear even as the fighting
mass before him brought him to a halt. He was swinging to have at me
again, but even as he faced me my sword swung down upon his iron bonnet,
driving pieces of it through his skull and into his brain. A fellow on
foot cut viciously at me at the instant I was recovering from the blow I
had dealt the mounted Kalkar, so that I was able only to partially parry
with my shield, with the result that his point opened up my right arm at
the shouldera flesh wound, but one that bled profusely, though it did
not stay the force of my return, which drove through his collarbone and
opened up his chest to his heart.

Once again I spurred in the direction of the tents of the Or-tis, above
which floated the red banners of the Kalkars, around which were massed
the flower of the Kalkar forces; too thickly massed, perhaps, for most
effective defense, since we were driving them in from three sides and
packing them there as tightly as eggs in the belly of a she-salmon. But
now they surged forward and drove us back by weight of numbers, and now
we threw ourselves upon them again until they, in their turn, were
forced to give the ground that they had won. Sometimes the force of our
attack drove them to one side while at another point their warriors were
pushing out into the very body of the massed clans, so that here and
there our turning movements would cut off a detachment of the enemy, or
again a score or more of our own men would be swallowed by the milling
Kalkar horde, until as the day wore on, the great field became a jumbled
mass of broken detachments of Julian and Kalkar warriors surging back
and forth over a bloody shambles, the iron shoes of their reeking mounts
trampling the corpse of friend and foe alike into the gory mire.

Once, late in the afternoon, during a lull in the battle, I sat looking
about the chaos of the field. Red with our own blood from a score of
wounds and with the blood of friend and foe, Red Lightning and I stood
panting in the midst of the welter. The tents of the Or-tis lay south of
uswe had fought half way around thembut they were scarce a hundred
yards nearer for all those bitter hours of battle. Some of the warriors
of The Wolf were near me, showing how far that old, grey chief had
fought his way since dawn, and presently behind a mask of blood I saw
the flashing eyes of The Wolf himself, scarce twenty feet away.

The Wolf! I cried and he looked up and smiled in recognition.

The Red Hawk is red indeed, he bantered; but his pinions are yet
unclipped.

And the fangs of The Wolf are yet undrawn, I replied.

A great Kalkar, blowing like a spent hound, was sitting his tired horse
between us. At our words he raised his head. You are The Red Hawk? he
asked.

I am The Red Hawk, I replied.

I have been searching for you these two hours, he said.

I have not been far, Kalkar, I told him; what would you of The Red
Hawk?

I bear word from Or-tis the Jemadar.

What word has an Or-tis for a Julian? I demanded.

The Jemadar would grant you peace, he explained.

I laughed. There is only one peace which we may share together, I
said, and that is the peace of deaththat peace I will grant him, and
he will come hither and meet me. There is nothing that an Or-tis has the
power to _grant_ a Julian.

He would stop the fighting while you and he discuss the terms of
peace, insisted the Kalkar. He would stop this bloody strife that must
eventually annihilate both Kalkar and Yank. He used an ancient term
which the Kalkars have applied to us for ages in a manner of contempt,
but which we have been taught to consider as an appellation of honor,
though its very meaning is unknown to us and its derivation lost in
antiquity.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of the Red Hawk and the Wolf, and to set up the conflict between the Kalkars and the Julians. The author achieves this by having the two characters meet in the midst of the battle and exchange banter. The Kalkar messenger then arrives and delivers his message, which the Red Hawk rejects.