Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
VII

BURIED TREASURE

A faint cry of dismay fell from Rob's lips as he met the evil glare
in the schoolmaster's eyes.  Cameron, too, seemed more than a little
shaken at the encounter, though he said nothing, but appeared plunged
in thought about the future.

In the hollow place where they stood, it was impossible for their
prisoner to see anything save the open sky, and a thousand twinkling
stars.

After a moment Cameron stepped gingerly beside him, and pulled at his
bonds.  Then, tearing a strip of cloth from off Macaulay's shirt, he
bound it round his eyes as though to hide their gleaming malice from
sight.

"Come, Rob," he said, in a whisper, "there's work for you and me this
night.  When we have ended we will set him free," and he led the way
back to the shore.

It was very still and lonesome there with only the soft wash of the
loch and the sighing of the wind amongst the trees, and Rob wished
the matter well over, and himself back in the comparative security of
Lovat's company.

"While I dig them up you roll them along the right bank," whispered
Cameron, warning him to keep in the depths of the heather, "and lay
them down in the shadow of the burn that joins the loch yonder.
Should you hear a sound come back and warn me.  Och!" he concluded,
stepping into the moonlight, "but these are strange times."  Then
bending his back he sent the spade deep into the sand.

"It's fortunate for you that I caught him watching," whispered Rob,
full of pride at his discovery.

"Man," said Cameron, "do I look sic a gomeral?  I knew he was there
from the moment I hitched the pony to the tree.  Had he gone it would
have fallen out just as I planned."

And so began the flight of the treasure--Rob creeping through the
darkness of the trees, rolling a cask, stealing noiseless as a shadow
over the wet leaves and bracken, and all the time seeing in the black
night the terrible eyes of Ephraim Macaulay marking his every step.
Backwards and forwards until his back ached, and the moisture stood
heavy upon his brow.  In the passive stillness of the night there was
no breath of danger, no whisper of heather alive with fugitives, and
spies, and nameless wanderers.

As he made for the slope with the last cask he saw Cameron smoothing
over the place with cunning hands, and patting the marks of his
footsteps about the sand.  Then he too followed, and together they
knelt by the stream.

"Now, Rob," said Cameron, "first there'll be a score of Highland
caterans scanning this shore, and after that there'll be the
red-coats, who are sure to get wind of it; and so it's our business,
ye ken, to mak' siccar* of this.  Maybe ye hae never hidden treasure,
Rob, so let us have a crack about it.  Come ye nearer.  Now, when our
friend in the hollow there gets his freedom he'll show a clear pair
o' heels to those who sent him, an' I'm uncommon interested to ken
just who they are."


* Certain.


"No, no," said Rob, with a touch of importance; "he is after me.  He
is a school-master of Inverness...."

"Oh!  Maybe, maybe," broke in Cameron.  "He is capable of being all
that.  But it's mair than you, Rob--though I hate to seem to
undervalue your importance, laddie."

"Then he is not..."

"Whisht!  What does it matter who he is?  So ye understand, Rob.
Follow him, and see whether he makes north or south, and then when ye
know that I will send you on a journey, for I am travelling east
mysel'."

"But Lord Lovat."

The man beside him started.

"What of him, Rob?" he asked quickly.

"Maybe he will require me."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Rob and Cameron have just captured Ephraim Macaulay, a schoolmaster from Inverness, and are discussing what to do with him. Cameron decides to blindfold Macaulay and leave him in the hollow where they found him. He then enlists Rob's help in hiding the treasure they have been digging up, telling him to roll the barrels of treasure down to the stream and hide them in the shadows.
As they are working, Cameron tells Rob that he knows Macaulay was sent by someone to spy on them, and he is interested to find out who that is. He instructs Rob to follow Macaulay when he is released and see which way he goes, then to come back and tell him so that he can send Rob on a journey east.
Rob is hesitant, as he is worried that Lord Lovat will need him, but Cameron assures him that he will take care of everything. They finish hiding the treasure and go their separate ways.