Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Fay examined his wrist with concern. A red band showed there. He worked
his fingers, stared at them, then brought forth a cigarette from his
pocket and, declining the light offered by MacKeenon, struck his own
match upon the bottom of his heel.

Dawn crimsoned the drawn shades of the compartment. The guard appeared
at a station and took the inspectors orders for a basket of rather
frugal proportions. The three ate breakfast in silence. The last scrap
was finished by MacKeenon, who remarked dryly:

Three and six! A minds the time when it was two and four.

Fay took this statement to mean that the inspector had spent rather more
money than he expected for the breakfast. He watched the thrifty Scot
make an entry in a notebook. His eyes wandered from this to Saidee
Isaacs. She had pressed her face to a window and was peering out. She
turned and held the shade up for him.

He caught a streaky glimpse of English meadows and estates. The trees
were very green. The lawns sloped down to the rails like great seas of
velvet. Hedges and well-trimmed clumps and flower-crescents flickered
by.

Fay flashed her a quick signal. He could escape! MacKeenon might be
bowled over. The door could be broken open. There was all of the North
Country to hide in. A flying leap from the train would take him from the
grasping hand of the Yard. The girl shook her head. She had a plan which
she could not reveal to him. She steadied her eyes and smiled a slow,
enigmatic smile of caution now, but freedom later.

MacKeenon glanced at his watch. It was evident that the train would be
late. This was such an unusual thing for the Royal Scotsman that he made
inquiry of the guard as the great station at Peterborough was reached.

The guard explained the matter by mentioning troop movements back from
France. The policing of Germany consisted of a mere handful of the
former force.

It was graying dusk when the inspector rose and brought out the
handcuffs. Saidee Isaacs turned from the window and flashed a protest as
Fays wrist was nipped and gyved to MacKeenons left hand.

She held her tongue and stood erect. The train glided through the murk
of a London station-yard. Switch-point lights flashedgreen and white. A
roar sounded of hollow sheds. A grinding of brakes announced the last
stop. The guard appeared, drew out a great bunch of keys and unlocked
the door. He thrust his head inside.

Hall hout! he said. Theyre waiting for you, inspector.

Fay, on the end of a bright steel chain, followed the detective. Saidee
Isaacs, who might have dropped back, stepped up loyally. The three
hurried through a curious crowd and glided out of a side door.

The same black car, with its H.M.S. plates, that had brought Fay to
London from Dartmoor, was waiting. The same driver sat in the front
seat. In the rear, holding an inviting door, stood the little old man
who had followed the cracksman to Holland. His bundle lay on the seat.
It was the nipper grip of the Yardand perfect team-work!

The ride south and then west through the crowded throng of City clerks
and busses was made in utter silence. MacKeenon sat between Fay and the
girl. The little old man, whose eyes were as bright as a terriers,
watched everything. The pouches on the sides of his jaw were leathern
and long. He sniffed at times. More times, he coughed with a distressing
rasp like a growl or a low bark.

The car turned into the street upon which was the House of the Two
Lions. The brakes went on with a clamp. The throttle was slowed as the
driver lifted his foot from the pedal. He sprang out to the curb. A
smell of hot oil permeated the night air. A double glow from two lamps
illuminated the front of the house. A man stood waiting!

Sir Richard nodded his head to MacKeenon after the inspector had hurried
Fay across the pavement and up the flight of steps. The chief of the
bureau glanced keenly at Saidee Isaacs. He said nothing. His manner was
cold. His great jaw snapped shut. It was like a double trap to Fay.

The light in the hallway was barely sufficient to reveal a flight of
stairs leading upward and a closed door at the end. Toward this door Sir
Richard stepped, threw it open, and bowed as MacKeenon led his suspect
into the center of the huge room, where first Fay had seen the cipher
sheets.

The cracksman studied this room as MacKeenon, at a nod from Sir Richard,
rattled out the handcuff key and turned the bolt in the snap-lock.
There were the same three tin boxes upon the long mahogany table. There
was also evidence everywhere that clerks had been copying the cipher.
Five American typewriters stood on tables at one end of the room. The
lights in the overhead cluster were brilliant. The air tasted of
pipe-smoke.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Fay: the protagonist, a criminal/thief
-MacKeenon: the detective inspector assigned to capture Fay
-Saidee Isaacs: Fay's accomplice and love interest
-The guard: an unnamed train guard
-Sir Richard: the head of the bureau investigating Fay