What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The words conjured an unpleasant picture of freezing, starving men
crawling painfully about like injured crabs, praying for quick release
from agony. Gerry winced.

"Weren't the explorers equipped with de-grav units?" she asked.

"Yes, but how long will they last? A couple of weeks at low power,
possibly. Then--" Dacres brought his palms together with slow
expressiveness. "That's why every second is precious."

Gerry felt cornered, and she glanced at Tommy Strike in an exasperated
appeal for reinforcement. But Strike was strictly neutral. If anything,
he found her predicament amusing, taking a perverse delight in seeing
her humbled by the opposite sex.

She made one last try.

"Why pick on me, Mr. Dacres?" she asked. "Why is it so essential to
have my ship, and only mine?"

"Rocket ships visiting Triton, however powerful, have so far all
cracked up. Complete safety demands the tremendous power of a
centrifugal flyer, like _The Ark_. How many such ships exist today?
A handful. And how many of those are owned by other than government
agencies? Only yours, Miss Carlyle. If you refuse me, I shall have to
try and find a lesser ship. But I'm staking a great deal on having
publicly put you into an intolerable position, so you can't afford to
turn me down."

Gerry gasped. The fellow was certainly frank about it. What's more, he
seemed to have all the answers. If she were ready to quit her romantic
and risky business and settle down, she could safely say no. But as
long as she wished to remain queen of the space-rovers, she dared not
let a single questionable act stain her record.

She looked despairingly at Strike, but he simply shrugged, grinning
faintly.

"Well, here we go again," he said.

Dacres tendered an olive branch.

"There might, of course, be some interesting alien life-forms on
Triton. After the rescue is completed, you'd be welcome to try for a
couple of specimens, if that would enable you to--er--save face."

Gerry felt her temperature climb to a new high, and she counted ten,
then stood up.

"You are insulting, Mr. Dacres," she announced. "I do not like you. The
only reason my fianc has not knocked you down is because he feels I
sometimes think too highly of myself, and that a dressing down does me
good. However, your brother's peril and your own machinations force me
to accept your proposition. Come back in an hour with your checkbook
and your attorney. Our contract will be ready for you. We can leave at
dawn."

Dacres bowed again, very tall and ever so slightly triumphant.

"Thank you," he said. "I regret our inability to be friends but, after
all, that is unimportant. I'm sure we'll manage a successful and
uneventful voyage."

He stalked out, ramrod-stiff.

"Whew!" Strike shook himself like a big dog. "The electric potential of
this room must be terrific. Think I'll go outside and ground myself.
I've never seen a fellow so completely right every time he opens his
mouth. Most disconcerting."

And Tommy Strike gave out with a roar of accumulated laughter.

Lawrence Dacres seemed to have been in error once, however, when he
predicted a journey without incident. Just before reaching Mars, five
of _The Ark's_ crew became violently ill after dinner.

"Food poisoning," was the verdict in the Martian hospital. The men
were out of danger and would be released in two or three days, but as
_The Ark_ had left Earth with only a skeleton crew, in order to save
expense, a serious problem was now at hand. Dacres, frantic at delay
which cost him hundreds of dollars a day, suggested that he recruit
replacements at the Martian spaceport.

"We must get under way at once, Miss Carlyle," he said, "or I'll go
broke just waiting here. After all, it wasn't your key men who became
ill, just subordinates. The chief engineer, for instance, is all right.
He could get along with new men for just this one trip."

It was true. On a routine journey such as this, Gerry had no need of
the special qualifications and training which made those sick men
expert hunters, trappers, and zoologists, as well as engineers. Any
good mechanics could replace them.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the conflict between Gerry and Dacres. Dacres is trying to convince Gerry to let him hire new crew members so they can get underway as soon as possible, but Gerry is hesitant because she doesn't want to risk hiring inexperienced people.