What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The firing is nearer than it was, Hi said.

Theres more of it, the American said.

There was more of it for half an hour: then suddenly it increased to a
rolling, rattling racket much nearer at hand. This went on with the
utmost fury for twenty minutes, during which all the windows in Santa
Barbara rattled and trembled. Hi could hear shouting in the noise of the
firing: then the shouting ceased and the firing dwindled away to a
popping till it almost ceased, too. He looked to the American for an
explanation. That was an attack, he said. But I guess theyve grown
tired of it.

It seemed as though that were the case, that they were tired of it. The
light began to move from the floor up the wall as the sun went down the
sky. The day of battle and suspense seemed coming to an end. Then
suddenly, within a quarter of a mile of them, seemingly somewhere on the
sea-front of the city, there came a clattering of horse-hoofs and
shouting.

After this, there was silence, while everybody waited in suspense for a
quarter of an hour, when a sudden shattering volley from close at hand
sent the hearts into the throats. Ricochetting bullets struck the
near-by roofs, there were falls of plaster and of tiles and the cries of
women, while the space down by the sea-front began to roar with firing:
hot and hot, so near at hand that presently the stink of the powder
drifted into the church.

The firing went on for nearly an hour, dwindling as the light dwindled,
till by the time the church was dark, save for the moonlight, it ceased
altogether.

The Whites must have entered the town and won, Hi said to the
American. That firing was in the town.

It was in the town all right, the American said.

Hi rose from his seat and began to pace up and down in his excitement.
The thought of Carlotta being set free was more than he could bear. The
guards lit a couple of candles in a side chapel, peered to see who was
walking, and called to Hi to keep still. The town outside was deathly
still for some time after the firing had ceased: then all the streets
began to ring with the trotting of horses, coming into the city from the
direction of the Medinas Gate. They came in at a fast trot on at least
three roads, so that the clatter and clink filled the air.

Here the conquering heroes come, the Americans said.

The Whites?

Its the side thats won anyway, or they wouldnt come in in order.

All the White army is cavalry.

Our darned Consuls might get a wiggle on without slopping over into
speed.

I dont suppose they know were here.

Its their job to know were not here.

The cavalry, whoever they were, went to their stations or bivouacs and
ceased to clatter. The town lapsed again into silence. Presently, in the
quiet, within a hundred yards of the church, a sentry challenged
someone, waited for two seconds, and fired. Someone cried out and fell,
while the sentry jerked out the shell, which tinkled on the stones,
reloaded and snapped-to the breech.

The sentrys night to howl, the American said.

Soon after this, when the town was silent save for the pacing of the
feet of sentries here and there, and the occasional slow passing of
horse patrols, some volley-firings, of three or four rifles together,
began in the direction of the cathedral. These volleys were repeated at
short intervals for twenty minutes.

What is that sort of firing? Hi asked.

It can only be executions, the American said. Theyre shooting
people.

Deserters?

Yes; or prisoners.

Prisoners of war? Surely not?

Any gol-darned prisoners good enough to shoot in this gol-darned
Republic.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the brutality of war and the consequences of losing. The author achieves this by describing the executions of prisoners in graphic detail.