Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XI

THE RETURN


Teddy Manleys breath caught in his throat as he stood, his back to
the wall, arms outstretched, watching the mountain lion. The only
thing moving on that rocky plateau was the animals tail. While the
lion remained as firm and steady as a statue, its tail lashed back
and forth with grim significance. It seemed to Teddy that he could
not take his eyes off that waving tip.

Then from the lions throat came a low growl, like the first mutter
of distant thunder, telling of a coming storm. With the sound,
Teddys brain threw off the shackles of fear. Swift as thought, the
boys hand flashed down to the gun at his side. The blue barrel came
out and up in a draw that would have left old Pop Burns gaping in
envious amazement.

At the same instant the boy bent low and jumped to one side, holding
his gun before him, finger ready on the trigger. But the lion did
not spring. Instead, it whirled with the boy, and instantly was
again facing him, this time at a greater distance, Teddy having
backed away, once he was clear of the wall.

Thoughts were flashing through the boys brain like subtitles on a
moving picture screen. Should he shoot and risk having the animal
charge if he missed? Would it be better to wait and see if the lion
would depart of its own accord? Perhaps the brute was frightened.
Given time, it might turn tail and make off without attacking.
Still, where had it come from? If it had leaped down from above,
Teddy would surely have heard it. Why, it must have been here when
Teddy had fallen!

Still backing, the boy determined to let the lion decide the issue.
If it made off, very well. If it sprang--Teddy took in a bit more of
the trigger slack and raised the barrel just a trifle, so that it
pointed directly at the lions left eye. Ad least he would go under,
fighting.

Suddenly the tail stopped its restless lashing. Teddy saw the
shoulder muscles of the beast move like ropes in silken sheathes. He
knew the moment had come.

As the lion sprang, Teddy fired. In that small enclosure the roar of
the large automatic was deafening.

When the lion landed, not five feet from Teddy, it turned its head
and began biting savagely at its left flank. Teddys bullet had only
wounded the animal.

He fired again and jumped aside. The bullet hit the beast just below
the heart. Furious with pain, it whirled about and came at the boy.

Now a hot, almost unreasoning, rage took possession of Teddy.

Come on, come on, you yellow coward! he shouted wildly. Fight!
Dont lay down so soon! Fight, you sneak!

Teddys abstinence from food, his chase after the thieves, and the
fall down the mountainside had snapped his restraint. He knew
nothing, except that he was facing an enemy--something he must kill.
With an abandonment of fury, he fired his remaining shots in the
direction of the lion, threw his gun from him, and started forward,
fists clenched, eyes burning with a feverish light.

Now, you coward, were even! he yelled. Fight, if youre not too
ornery. Lets see what youre made of! Come on! Think Im afraid,
hey? Ill show you! You yellow coward.

The strange spectacle of an unarmed boy advancing toward him with
something white wrapped around his head and making furious noises
with his mouth, caused the lion to hesitate. But only for a moment.
Then he leaped forward to meet this presumptuous being, and teach
him respect for tearing claws and knife-like teeth.

Teddy braced himself for the shock. There was no thought of death in
his mind--only that he would soon be at grips with an enemy whom he
hated.

Through a red mist, the boy saw the roaring beast launch itself into
the air. He saw the lips drawn back in a snarl of rage. He saw the
forefeet close together, white, curving claws projecting from small
rubber-like pads. He saw the eyes gleam wickedly.

Teddy put up his hands to ward off that hurtling body, and at that
moment two sharp cracks came to his ears. He saw the lions body
twitch. Automatically he dodged, and the beast struck his shoulder,
dashing the boy to the ground. There was another crack, then
another. Teddy rose dazedly to his feet. He looked down. On the
rocky floor lay the lion--quivering, but stone dead.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Teddy Manley is standing with his back to the wall, arms outstretched, watching a mountain lion. The lion is standing firm and steady, but its tail is lashing back and forth. Teddy's brain is overcome with fear and he reaches for his gun. He jumps to the side and points the gun at the lion. The lion does not attack, but Teddy's thoughts are racing. He wonders if he should shoot, and if so, whether or not the lion will charge. He decides to wait and see if the lion will leave on its own. The lion's tail stops lashing and its shoulder muscles move. Teddy knows the moment has come. He fires, but only wounds the lion. The lion attacks, and Teddy shoots again, hitting it below the heart. The lion is furious with pain and charges at Teddy. Teddy abandons his gun and advances toward the lion, fists clenched and eyes burning. The lion hesitates at the strange sight of an unarmed boy coming toward it, but then attacks. Teddy braces himself for the impact. He hears two sharp cracks and then the lion is dead.