What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Captain Palmer has served notice on them to lay off Johnny Rogers. If
they dont well organize a branch of the vigilantes, as they did at
Virginia not long since.

Then its a showdown?

Its a showdown.

It was observable that the gang began to draw together from that day.
Minor differences of opinion in its members were sunk in the common need
of a united front. Daily, Masterson, Buckley, Vance, McDowell, Carberry,
and their followers could be seen swaggering in groups. Their attitude
was defiant. It would not have surprised Aurora to learn any morning
that Palmer or Rogers had been shot down.

The vengeance of the gunmen fell instead on Johnson, the rancher who had
sent Rogers to get back the stolen horse. He was warned not to show his
face in Aurora. The ranchman disregarded the threat and came to town
each week to sell his produce. He made the trip once too often. His body
was found one morning lying in the street. During the night he had been
murdered.

Hugh was standing in front of the Novacovich building when he heard of
the killing. The man who told him whispered a word in his ear. Instantly
the express messenger walked to his cabin. He drew out a sawed-off shot
gun from beneath the bed and passed down Main Street to the Wingate
building.

Already forty or fifty men were present, the pick of the town. More were
pouring in every minute. Captain Palmer was the leader. As Hugh looked
from his cold stern face to those of the grim men about him he knew that
a day of judgment had come.

An organization of vigilantes was completed in a few minutes. There was
no debate, no appeal from the decision of the chair. These citizens
meant business. They were present to get results swiftly and
efficiently. The men were divided into companies with captains. One
group was sent to take charge of the Armoury, where the weapons of the
Esmeralda Rangers were kept.

Palmer checked off a list of gunmen to be arrested. This commission was
given to Hugh. He divided his company into groups and set about finding
the men whose names he had on the list.

Most of the desperadoes were taken completely by surprise. They were
captured in bed after being aroused from sleep. Hugh himself broke down
the door of Jack Dailys room after the man had refused to open it.

The two faced each with a revolver in his hand. Daily saw other men at
the head of the stairs back of McClintock.

Whats all this row about? he asked.

W. R. Johnson was killed in the night. Youre wanted, Jack, the young
man answered.

Killed, was he? Well, he had it comin, jeered the gunman. Youve
heard about the pitcher that went once too often to the well, I reckon.

Weve heard about that pitcher, Jack. Have you? asked Hugh
significantly.

Daily tried to carry things off with a swagger. Been elected sheriff
overnight, young fellow, in place of Francis?

Just a deputy. Drop that gun.

The desperado hesitated. Then, with a forced laugh, he tossed his
revolver upon the bed. Youre feelin yore oats since Dutch showed a
yellow streak, McClintock.

Buckley had escaped and the sheriff sent a posse after him. Two or three
men on the list were in hiding and could not at once be found, but the
gather in the net of the vigilantes was a large one. Later in the day
Buckley was brought to town. He had been found skulking in a prospect
hole.

There was a disposition at first on the part of some to let the
machinery of the law take its course rather than try the prisoners
before a peoples court. The leaders of the movement yielded to this
sentiment so far as to allow a preliminary hearing in the office of
Justice Moore.

At this hearing Vance, one of the gang whose name somehow had not been
included on the list, had the hardihood to appear. He blustered and
bullied, though he was warned to remain silent. Presently, just as he
was reaching for a revolver, one of the citizens posse wounded him in
the arm.

Captain Palmer, on behalf of the vigilantes, at once brushed aside the
formalities of the law and organized a peoples court. He did not intend
to let the guilty men intimidate the court that was to try them, nor to
permit them to escape by means of technicalities.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the conflict between the vigilantes and the desperadoes, and to show the citizens taking action to protect their town.