What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Of course the idea seemed a little crazy to me at first, and so it did
to Burke.

"That's a wacky theory, Dixon. You can see and handle a remora, but who
ever saw or handled an individual human mind?"

"Who ever saw or handled a radar beam?" retorted Dixon. "But we know
it's there. Maybe your mind falls into the same class. A living,
individual creature, not of ordinary matter but of non-material
photons."

I became so interested I ventured a question. "If my mind and body are
two different creatures, how come I don't know it?"

"Don't you know it?" he said. "You _do_ know it, Ellis. How many times
has your reasoning mind urged you to do one thing, while the instincts
of your body led you to do another? Mind and body are always at strife
in all of us--it's been so in all human history."

He seemed to kindle to his own idea.

"Why is it that of all animals, only homo sapiens had what we call a
conscious mind? The explanations of the biologists are pretty hazy,
for they don't really know the answer. Suppose the answer is that the
_human_ body is the only one in which the individual, living mind can
live in symbiosis?"

Burke was still unimpressed. "That's just the old dualistic theory of
Descartes, at bottom."

"The old has a habit of becoming the very new, in science," retorted
Dixon. "Doctor Alexis Carrel was a pretty modern and famous scientist.
And Carrel, speculating in one of his books on the riddle of mind,
suggested that a mind might be an immaterial being that somehow inserts
itself from outside into the human brain and dwells there."

I was deeply interested.

"Is there any way you could prove or disprove the theory, doctor?" I
asked.

Dixon shrugged. "How are you going to prove it? Forcing the living
mind temporarily out of its comfortable symbiotic partnership in the
body might prove it. But how can you force out a thing of immaterial
photons? Nothing but electric force could do it...."

That moment, as it turned out, was the beginning of the stunning events
that followed.

Until then, Dixon had been merely hypothesizing. But now his dark face
changed, and he was silent in intense thought.

"I believe," he said finally, "that it might be done, by amplifying the
electroshock treatment used on psychotic patients by Cerletti and Bini
in nineteen thirty-nine. You remember their patients could remember
nothing of elapsing time while under shock? Their minds must have been
out of their bodies for a moment!

"Suppose I increased the electroshock strength to force the mind out a
little longer? The subject, when he came back to normal, might then
remember his sensations as a disembodied mind."

Burke slowly nodded. "Sounds possible. But you'll never find out.
You've no one to test the idea on, and never will have."

I don't know why it was that I didn't hesitate a moment in speaking up.
I had not the slightest doubt.

"You can use me as your subject, doctor," I said.

I believe now it was my vain desire to emulate Dixon, my consciousness
of my own lack of brilliance, that made me seize a chance to
distinguish myself in an epochal experiment.

"You, Ellis?" Burke looked shocked.

But Dixon didn't. A little light leaped into his eyes as he looked at
me.

He liked me, I think. But that liking meant not a straw when compared
to the intensity with which he pursued any research.

"You know, of course, that it would be dangerous?" he warned. "The
object would be to force your mind free of your body for all of a few
minutes, then let it return so you can describe your sensations.

"This body-mind partnership, if it really exists, must be about the
closest symbiosis in existence. Tampering with the partnership might
have disastrous results."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the idea of Dixon's experiment, and to establish the stakes involved. Dixon is proposing a dangerous experiment with the potential to change our understanding of the mind, and Ellis has volunteered to be the subject. This scene sets up the conflict that will drive the rest of the story.