Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
III

_Murder With Mathematics_


Half of Strike's mind boiled with astonishment and self-revilement.
It was his fault. He should have known. McCray had practically proved
this was coming, but he had insisted on laughing the fellow off as a
"character." He had been criminally blind and stupid.

Yet the other part of his brain admitted his actions had only been
natural, that no one in his senses would have credited Dacres with the
foolhardy idea of stealing the most famous spaceship in the entire
System. It was just crazy.

Dark-faced with fury, Strike put this thought into words.

"Just what d'you think you're going to do, anyhow?"

"We're taking over _The Ark_, camouflaging it, and using it for a short
career of piracy among the Outer Planets. Perhaps a half-dozen quick
strikes, then we all retire wealthy before the law even starts to hunt."

There it was, beautifully simple, grim, dastardly.

"And what about us?" asked the girl.

"So sorry." Dacres smiled hypocritically. "You and your crew will be
packed into a lifeboat and marooned on Triton. Another regrettable
accident to another would-be explorer of the 'siren satellite'."

"That's murder!" Strike lashed out. "We'll die there, horribly, crushed
flat by that gravity."

Dacres warned Strike back with his gun.

"Tut, tut, Captain," he said. "You didn't think we could afford to
leave you alive, to carry tales to any possible rescue parties, did
you? It's all part of my scheme. Everything must appear accidental."

Strike looked at his fiance, and was never prouder of her. If the
mutineers expected tears or hysteria, they must have been shocked at
the hardy defiance of her next remark.

"You're a fool, Dacres, if you don't kill us all right now."

There was implacable hate in the girl's voice, but Dacres merely
grinned.

"Oh, no, Miss Carlyle," he said. "No shooting. No hint of foul play. I
see what's in your mind. You foresee furious rescue operations when
_The Ark_ becomes overdue. Naturally, Triton will be searched, and you
intend to leave an explanatory message where it will be easily found.

"Spare yourself the trouble, please. We'll give you a few days--it'd
be interesting to see just how long the human heart can endure
such strain--then visit your little tomb on Triton. Any messages
subsequently found will be written by me, neatly explaining the
destruction of _The Ark_ in space, with no suggestion of criminal
action."

Hopelessness was a knot in Strike's stomach. The plot was really
ironclad. But even now Gerry seemed unshaken. She looked around the
group of thieves and murderers as if memorizing their faces for future
reference. Then she saw McCray, hiding shamefacedly in the rear. Her
eyebrows raised.

"You, too, 'Champ'? I'm disappointed."

The pugilist crimsoned.

"The 'Champ' had a silly idea that he could remain neutral in this
game," Dacres explained easily. "We can use a muscular man, so we gave
him his choice. He chose to live, with us."

Gerry nodded.

"Just for curiosity," she said, "do you really have a brother?"

"No. The lost expedition was just window-dressing. Rather nicely done,
I thought. We actually arranged for a ship to leave Mars a few months
ago under my charter, in case you checked on it."

"Swine!" Gerry Carlyle spat the word, and swung her right fist in a
haymaker that caromed off Dacres' nose. Holstering his gun, he wiped
his watering eyes and started for Gerry.

At that instant, something happened to McCray. It seemed to Strike that
the man's natural instincts as a fighter and sportsman got tangled up
with his admiration for a beautiful girl. At any rate, moving expertly
now on his clogs, he slid before Gerry.


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

- Gerry Carlyle's fiance, Strike, and her crew are taken hostage by Dacres and his men 
- Dacres plans to maroon them on Triton, a satellite of Neptune, to die 
- Gerry punches Dacres when he tries to hurt her 
- McCray, one of Dacres' men, protects her