Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
IV THE INDIAN SHARK-KILLER


Other voices blended with that of the skipper. The two sailors in the
water were screeching as loud as they could, though in no apparent
peril, since they had not followed Ballyhoo far from the side of the
boat.

Both Jack and Oscar were thrilled with a sudden fear. Now they could
see a second sharp-pointed fin zigzagging through the waters. From
the excited manner in which the sharks were swimming, first this way
and then that, it seemed as though some instinct must have told them
there was a chance to secure a dinner. Oscar was forcibly reminded of
the mysterious way in which those carrion birds away over there in
Africa would appear high in the heavens almost as soon as game had been
brought down, as though their wonderful sense of smell, or some strange
instinct, told them of the feast that was preparing.

Ballyhoo was no longer lying there floating on his back. The sturdy
shout of the captain through the megaphone had reached him as clear
as a bell. It was enough to put activity into the boldest swimmers
frame; and so Ballyhoo started at full speed in the direction of the
submarine.

Oscar vanished down the ladder leading into the conning tower, as
though he had conceived some project that might help in case of
desperate need. Jack, like the captain, could only stand there and
stare. All at once the instinct came to him to turn his camera on the
scene. Perhaps it was mechanically that the boy commenced to turn the
crank, hardly knowing what he was doing, save that the artist spirit in
him was being appealed to by the dramatic nature of the event.

Although Ballyhoo was working his arms like flails, and making prize
time in cutting through the water, those monsters of the deep could
swim twice as fast as a mere human being at his best.

Now it seemed as though they must have found the right scent at last.
They were coming on in a direct line for the struggling boy. The sound
of his arms beating the water into foam as he fought his way onward may
have attracted them; but no matter from what cause, both sharks were
speeding directly to the spot.

Faster, lad, faster! theyre after you! roared the captain, himself
horror-stricken at the prospect of a sea tragedy.

If anything could cause Ballyhoo to put new vigor into his frantic
strokes, it was that urgent appeal. But even though he may have added
to his speed it was but a matter of fractions, and could not enter into
the result at all.

Just then Oscar came shooting out of the little trap in the deck,
looking white and peaked. He clutched something in his hands. Jack,
even as he continued to grind mechanically away at his machine, saw
what it was, and a fresh spasm of hope gripped his aching heart.

How fortunate it was that Oscar always kept his repeating rifle ready
charged for business. He had gone down below like a streak of greased
lightning, as he afterwards explained it, and, snatching his gun,
started up again, flinging aside the engineer, who, having heard the
outcries, was bent on reaching the deck so as to learn what was the
matter.

So Oscar flung himself forward, and, raising his rifle, waited to see
at which of the two monsters he should commence firing. They had gained
on Ballyhoo fearfully. The swimming boy, glancing over his shoulder
each time he swung back and forth with his alternate strokes, could,
doubtless, see those sharp fins cutting the water like so many knife
blades.

Ballyhoo was pretty badly frightened by that time. No doubt all that
he had ever read about swimmers attacked and bitten by man-eating
sharks must have flashed before his mental vision. But he was straining
himself to the very utmost now, and nothing could increase his pace.

At that rate he must be overhauled long before he could gain the safety
of the boat. Oscar realized this even as he glanced along the barrel of
his gun, and then pressed the trigger.

With the sharp report he saw the water splash upward where the bullet
struck.

You hit him, lad, you surely did; give the begger another try!
snapped the intensely interested captain.

Again Oscar fired, and this time there could be no doubt, for they all
plainly saw the flirt of a huge tail above the surface of the water;
and, unless their eyesight deceived them, the sea in that vicinity was
immediately tinged with blood.

Apparently that monster was disposed of, temporarily at least, and with
a grim intention of repeating his triumph Oscar sought to get a chance
at the other man-eater.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-A boy named Ballyhoo is swimming in the ocean when he's suddenly attacked by two sharks.
-The captain of the nearby boat shouts for Oscar, who comes running with his rifle.
-Oscar shoots one of the sharks, and it seems to be injured.
-The other shark is still after Ballyhoo, so Oscar shoots it too.
-Both sharks are now dead or injured, and Ballyhoo is safe.