Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
VII
THE MOON MAID ESCAPES

After occupying the new village, Orthis and I were separated, he being
assigned a hut close to Ga-va-go, while I was placed in another section
of the village. If I could have been said to have been on good terms
with any of the terrible creatures of the tribe, it was with the woman
who had taught me the language of the Va-gas, and it was from her that I
learned why Orthis was treated with such marked distinction by Ga-va-go,
whom, it seemed, he had promised to lead to the land of our origin,
where, he had assured the savage chieftain, he would find flesh in
abundance.

Nah-ee-lah was confined in still another part of the village, and I only
saw her occasionally, for it was evident that Ga-va-go wished to keep
the prisoners separated. Upon one occasion when I met her at the shore
of the lake I asked her why it was that they had not slain and eaten
her, and she told me that when Ga-va-go had discovered her identity, and
that her father was a Jemadar, a ruler of a great city, he had sent
messengers with an offer to return Nah-ee-lah for a ransom of one
hundred young women of the city of Laythe.

Do you think your father will send the ransom? I asked.

I do not know, she replied. I do not see how they are going to get a
message to him, for ordinarily, my race kills the Va-gas on sight. They
may succeed, however, but even so, it is possible that my father will
not send the ransom. I would not wish him to. The daughters of my
fathers people are as dear to them, as am I to him. It would be wrong
to give a hundred of the daughters of Laythe in return for one, even
though she be the daughter of the Jemadar.

We had drunk, and were returning toward our huts when, wishing to
prolong our conversation and to be with this pleasant companion while I
might, I suggested that we walk farther into the woods and gather fruit.
Nah-ee-lah signified her willingness, and together we strolled out of
the village into the denser woods at its rear, where we found a
particularly delicious fruit growing in abundance. I gathered some and
offered it to her, but she refused, thanking me, saying that she had but
just eaten.

Do they bring the fruit to you, I asked, or do you have to come and
gather it yourself?

What fruit I eat I gather, she replied, but they bring me flesh. It
is of that which I have just eaten, and so I do not care for fruit now.

Flesh! I exclaimed. What kind of flesh?

The flesh of the Va-gas, of course, she replied. What other flesh
might a U-ga eat?

I fear that I ill-concealed my surprise and disgust at the thought that
the beautiful Nah-ee-lah ate of the flesh of the Va-gas.

You, too, eat of the flesh of these creatures? I demanded.

Why not? she asked. You eat flesh, do you not, in your own country.
You have told me that you raise beasts solely for their flesh.

Yes, I replied, that is true, but we eat only the flesh of lower
orders; we do not eat the flesh of humans.

You mean that you do not eat the flesh of your own species, she said.

Yes, I replied, that is what I mean.

Neither do I, she said. The Va-gas are not of the same species as the
U-ga. They are a lower order, just as are the creatures whose flesh you
eat in your own country. You have told me of beef, and of mutton, and of
pork, which you have described as creatures that run about on four legs,
like the Va-gas. What is the difference, then, between the eating of the
flesh of pork and beef or mutton, and the eating of Va-gas, who are low
creatures also?

But they have human faces! I cried, and a spoken language.

You had better learn to eat them, she said, otherwise you will eat no
flesh in Va-nah.

The more I thought about it the more reason I saw in her point of view.
She was right. She was no more transgressing any natural law in eating
the flesh of the Va-gas than do we, eating the flesh of cattle. To her
the Va-gas were less than cattle. They were dangerous and hated enemies.
The more I analyzed the thing, the more it seemed to me that we humans
of the earth were more surely transgressing a natural law by devouring
our domestic animals, many of which we learned to love, than were the
U-ga of Va-nah in devouring the flesh of their four-footed foes, the
Va-gas. Upon our earthly farms we raise calves and sheep and little
pigs, and oftentimes we become greatly attached to individuals and they
to us. We gain their confidence, and they have implicit trust in us, and
yet, when they are of the right age, we slay and devour them. Presently
it did not seem either wrong or unnatural that Nah-ee-lah should eat the
flesh of the Va-gas, but as for myself, I could never do it, nor ever
did.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very matter-of-fact and straightforward. There is no hint of emotion or feeling, and the point of view is that of an objective narrator.