Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XV.


Lewis Pryor was in the greatest distress over the result of the match,
and in riding back to Deerchase, by Skeltons side, he was the most
doleful boy that ever was seen. Skelton was in a violent fury over the
treatment accorded the boy, and felt like marrying Sylvia Shapleigh out
of hand and establishing her at Deerchase for the purpose of spiting
the other women in the county.

Next morning Lewis asked Bulstrode if he might ride over to Newington
to inquire after Hilary and Mrs. Blair.

Deuced if I know, answered Bulstrode. I havent the least objection;
but youd better ask Mr. Skelton.

Lewis, without saying a word to Skelton, got on his pony and rode to
Newington. Blair met him at the door, and for the first time he laid
aside the freezing air he had always maintained towards the boy and was
extremely cordial. Hilary was far from all right; the horse had rolled
on him, and it would be some time yet before they could tell how badly
hurt he was. Mrs. Blair felt better, but was a good deal shaken by the
shock. Lewis was so overcome at this that Blair felt sorry for the boy,
and said:

However, come in the house. Mrs. Blair would like to see you; and
Hilary, too, if he is able.

Lewis walked into the house for the first time in his life, and sat
down alone in the drawing-room. In a few moments Blair came to fetch
him, and conducted him to Hilarys room. Mrs. Blair sat by the bed
on which Hilary lay, and as soon as Lewis entered she rose and went
towards him with much sweetness of manner. Hilary, too, welcomed him
feebly. Poor Lewis could hardly refrain from tears. He felt himself the
author of more grief and pain to other people than anybody in the whole
world. And he even envied Hilary, lying helplessly in the bed. His
mother watched him fondly; his father sat by him--and it was always a
pretty sight to see Blair with his children; while little Mary promised
Hilary that, if he should be a cripple for life, she would abandon all
ideas of matrimony and devote her life to him. The little girl, who was
uncommonly pretty, was disposed to regard Lewis as an enemy, but was
finally coaxed into magnanimity, and even condescended to sit on his
knee.

When Lewis rose to go, Mrs. Blair accompanied him to the door. He
made her a thousand earnest apologies, to which Mrs. Blair replied
generously. Even Blair himself was kind to the boy, who left them with
an overflowing heart. Hilary had asked him to come again, and both Mr.
and Mrs. Blair had repeated the invitation.

Skelton, sitting at Deerchase in the library, was triumphant, but
far from happy. Towards noon he missed Lewis, and happening across
Bulstrode in the stone porch, he inquired for the boy.

Dont know, answered Bulstrode, adding, with a grin: He asked me
about going to Newington. I told him I had no objection, and advised
him to ask you--and by the Lord Harry! I shouldnt be surprised if he
had gone.

A very little inquiry showed that Newington was precisely where Lewis
had gone. Bulstrode was secretly much amused.

Birds of a feather--Skelton and Lewis. The boy is giving him a dose of
his own medicine.

All Skelton said was to direct the servants immediately upon Lewiss
arrival to let him know.

When Lewis appeared he was met by Bob Skinny, who directed him
mysteriously to de libery. An Mr. Skelton, he fyarly sizzlin, he so
mad.

Lewis walked into the library quite coolly. Skelton wheeled around and
said, in a voice very unlike his usual almost caressing tone:

Have you been to Newington, Lewis?

Yes, sir, answered Lewis calmly.

I considered it unnecessary to tell you not to go, as you know, of
course, the relations between Mr. Blair and myself are not cordial; and
it never occurred to me that you would go off in this manner, in direct
defiance of what you know must be my wishes.

I asked Mr. Bulstrode, sir, answered Lewis in a very soft, composed
voice. He told me he had no objection. Its true he advised me to ask
you; but Mr. Bulstrode is my guardian, and when I have his permission I
dont need anybody elses, sir.

Lewis had in perfection Skeltons trick of expressing the utmost
defiance in the most moderate tone. There was nothing approaching
insolence in his manner, but a perfect knowledge of his rights and a
determination to stand upon them. Skelton was entirely at a loss for a
moment or two. He had not the slightest means of enforcing obedience
from the boy, except a threat of sending him away from Deerchase, and
he suspected that was just what would have pleased Lewis best. But he
spoke in a tone of stern command that he had never used towards the boy
before.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its use of dialogue to advance the plot. The dialogue is sharp and reveals the tension between the two characters. There is also a sense of foreboding as the reader gets the sense that something bad is going to happen.