What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XIX

BOUND OUT


Jessie thought that the very wealthy Mrs. Purdy Olliver was no
different from Momsy or Mrs. Drew or Nell's Aunt Freda. She was just
polite and kind. Secretly the girls from Roselawn thought the lady was
very different from Belle's mother and Mrs. Moon. Perhaps that fact was
one reason why the unpleasant Belle Ringold had spoken in some awe of
the New York woman.

She had a really wonderful suite at the Hackle Island Hotel, for she
had furnished it herself and came here every year, she told her young
visitors. There was a lovely big bath room with both a tub and a Roman
shower.

"Though, you can believe me," said Amy, "I don't have any idea that
many of the old Romans had baths like this. It was 'the great unwashed'
that supported Csar. 'Roman bath' is only a name."

"Wrong! Not about Csar's crowd, but about the Romans in general as
bathers," answered Jessie. "Read your Roman history, girl. Or if not
that--and you won't--some historical novels."

"Humph!" sniffed Amy, but made no further reply.

The girls laughingly disrobed and tried the shower, while the maid
dried their outer clothing, furnishing each of the guests with kimono
or negligee. Then they came out into Mrs. Olliver's living room and
took tea with her.

They did not get their own clothes back until nearly six o'clock, and
saw nothing of Belle and Sally when they came out of the hotel. Perhaps
that was because they left by Mrs. Olliver's private door and ran right
down the steps to the beach where they had left the boat.

The kind woman had asked them to come and see her again, and was
especially cordial when she knew that Jessie was the daughter of the
Mrs. Norwood who had been chairman of the foundation fund committee of
the Women's and Children's Hospital of New Melford.

"I think that idea of having a radio concert by which to raise funds
for the hospital was unusually good," the New York woman said. "It was
the first thing that interested me in radio-telephony. I mean to have
a set put in here soon. There is a big one in the hotel foyer, but it
does not work perfectly at all times."

"Dear me," said Nell, as the girls descended to the beach, "you run
into radio fans everywhere, don't you? How interesting!"

The boat was all right, only half filled with water. The bathhouse man
came and turned the craft over for them and emptied it. Jessie thanked
and tipped him and he pushed them off. Jessie and Amy each took an oar
and made Nell sit in the stern and nurse her blister.

"It really is something of a blister," Amy remarked, looking at it
carefully.

"There's water in it already, and it hurts!" wailed the clergyman's
daughter.

"I see the water," declared Amy. "It may be an ever-living spring
there. You know, people have water on the brain and water on the knee;
but seems to me a spring in your hand must be lots worse."

"You never will be serious," said Nell, half laughing. "If the blister
was on your hand----"

"Don't say a word! I think I shall have one before we reach the
landing," declared Amy. "And, girls, what do you suppose that grouchy
old fisherman will say when he sees we lost his rudder?"

"He won't see that," replied Jessie.

"What! Why, listen to her!" gasped Amy. "Is she going to try to get
away before he misses the rudder?"

"Not at all," returned her chum calmly, while Nell began to laugh. "It
was _you_ who lost the rudder, Amy Drew. Nell and I had nothing to do
with that crime."

"Ouch!" cried Amy. "I wouldn't have lost it if it hadn't been for the
thunderstorm coming down on us so suddenly. And that old fellow didn't
warn us of any squall."

"He warned us that squalls were prevalent on the bay," replied Nell.
"He said he knew nothing about the weather. And I guess he told the
truth."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Jessie, Amy, and Nell and to set up the conflict between Amy and Jessie. The author achieves this by having the girls disrobe and take a shower together, then have tea with Mrs. Olliver. Amy and Jessie argue over whether or not the Romans were good bathers, and Nell tries to mediate. By the end of the scene, the conflict is established and the girls are on their way back to the landing.