What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
A hissing of indrawn air sounded. The wind of their swift passage struck
back and cut the cuticle of Fays white cheeks. They flushed and
reddened with the rush of warm blood up through his sagged veins. He
felt then the sweet wine of life and livingthe clean vision and promise
of the open places.

He sat in one position, turning over and over the riddle of his sudden
freedom. It was like being rebornrejuvenated.

MacKeenon had said no word. He crouched like a watchful hound, ready,
alert for the first overt act. Fay had weighed the chances when he had
first entered the car. They still held good. The great motor often
slowed for trafficfor the tide of war which flowed Londonward, even
after the last treaty of peace had been signed.

Lorries, caissons, embarked troops in olive-drab, invalided officers and
men strolling through the rare English meadows, all were a maelstrom
where freedom from pursuit could be had.

Fay feared no living man or group of men. He had played the underworld
game according to his code. It had been a losing one, perhaps; but he
had held it down to the last grim brush with the hounds of the law in
the Court of Assizes. He had not whimpered. He had not squealed. There
was that rat, Dutch Gus, and that pigeon, Nelly Blake, who might have
stuck by a pal. They were gone now with their telltale eyes and their
overextended sympathies.

Also, for he had played many parts, there was Saidee Isaacs. Where was
she now? She had been different. A hell-cat, perhaps, but then Saidee
was a mans girl and a lady. Had she gone up or down during the five
years at Dartmoor? Fay rather thought, as he gripped the rare leather of
the cars upholstery, that Saidee would be found in West London. Could
she have anything to do with his release?

MacKeenon, alone, could answer this riddle. He turned his chin slightly
and studied the cold face of the Scotch inspector. There was no light in
his eyes. He sat half on the edge of the seat. His toes touched the rug
on the tonneau floor. He was prepared to spring or clap on a pair of
nippers. He was the personification of British watchfulness and
sagacity.

The detective had played his hand, five years before, in taking
advantage of information. He had told the truth on the witness dais, as
he knew it. He had not enlarged on the damning evidence. It had been
large enough. Down in his heart Fay did not blame MacKeenon for
testifying as he did. It had sent him away, but then it was part of the
game. It was an added corollary to the ancient axiom: A sleuth can make
a thousand mistakes and yet may get his quarrythe quarry dare not
afford to overlook the smallest trifle.

Noon passed. Night drew its shade across the eastern world. The long,
black motor car hurtled on without being stopped, without question from
the decorated officers who regulated the traffic.

There was a hidden magic in the H.M.S. plates which hung from the front
axle and the rear trunk rack. There was a keen hand at the wheel who
knew the turns and the signals. He drove as if the weight of an empire
depended on getting to his destination.

Chester Fay, letting slip a hundred chances for escape, found himself in
the gripping clutch of the unknown which lay before him. MacKeenon had a
plan in the back of his long Scotch head. Its very uncertainty gripped
the cracksman in a passive nip of steel.

The inspector would talk, yes. Fay believed that he would discuss the
weather, the earth and the heaven above, without betraying the one thing
which was hurling them eastward at racing speed.

This thing was the reason for taking a prisoner out of the living hell
of Dartmoor before the long years of penance had been up. It was
unusual; it was extraordinary save in the case where a crook squealed
and turned Crowns evidence.

The Scotch inspector most certainly knew that he had no such man to deal
with!

The reaching fringe of London was entered. The sky grew pale. Dusk fell
with the great roaring car brightening the asphalt road ahead with
flickering, dancing electrics of tremendous candle-power.

Hyde Park Corner was reached. Piccadilly lay ahead. Sombre mansions
reared on either hand. A hospital, bright with the flags of the
victorious Allies, was passed with closed muffler. The car swerved
toward the Thames. The lamps were dimmed as the Embankment loomed with
its monuments. The brakes went on.

Fay gripped his oakum-stained nails deep within the palms of his white
hands. He had a premonition that his destination was to be New Scotland
Yard. Prisoners were sometimes taken there for interrogation.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the main character. The author achieves this by describing the journey from Dartmoor to London, and by introducing Fay and MacKeenon.