Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
O Mrs. Lucien, how could you lend yourself to such experiments? You
would not deceive me, would you? Tell me truly, did you know what you
were doing when you wrote that message to me?

No more than I know what I do in my sleep. I have a feeling that I have
had dreams, but I cannot recall them.

Did this ever happen before?

I have had this feeling and a partial remembrance of dreams, but I do
not know what I have ever written.

Do you think Dr. Lyman had anything to do with this?

No, only so far as he has assisted in developing me.

What do you mean by that?

I think he exercised somemesmeric power or influence over me, while in
attendance at his lectures.

You horrify me! And would you continue to go and hear him, when you
knew this?

Why, yes. I hoped he might develop me into a medium. Why should I not?
Mrs. Luciens innocent, dark eyes looked up inquiringly.

I think it is dreadfuldreadful! I would not be under his influence for
anything.

But it is not his influence. It isOh! I cannot tell you. It is a power
from beyond. Why should I fear to speak to those I love?

I cannot bear to think of it, Mrs. Wylie said, shivering. We do not
know to whom we are talking. We have no proof of their identity, and
know not if the power be good or evil.

What, not when we see, as we did a short time ago, the faces of those
we have known and loved here on earth?

Mrs. Wylie shook her head.

A delusion of the senses! she said positively.

Mrs. Lucien gazed pityingly upon her.

I am sure, dear Mrs. Wylie, that when we see a photograph taken of a
spirit face we can not doubt its genuineness. Cameras do not lie.

Dont they? I am not sure. I have heard that people have tried to get
pictures of materialized spirits, and failed. The camera plate reveals
_nothing_, proving the delusions. Did you ever see an authentic
spirit-photograph?

My father did, and I have often heard him tell the story, although he
does not profess to believe in spiritism. He is a member of the Masonic
fraternity, and while in the West, a number of years ago, one of his
brother knights sickened and died. The family had no good portrait of
the man, and my father, who was superintending the funeral arrangements,
obtained permission to get some one to take a picture of the corpse.

There was a young lady photographer a few doors away and she was called
in. She told them she was out of negative plates (they were in a country
town where supplies were not readily obtainable) but that any glass
would do. Accordingly she found a pane of window glass, and cut it to
the required dimensions and prepared it otherwise for the holder. My
father propped the man upon pillows as well as he could, and the artist
focused upon him with care. Removing the plate she took it to a dark
closet, previously prepared, to apply the developing solution, and then
brought it forth to show to my father. He looked at it, and exclaimed in
surprise, for instead of the dead man alone, there were three figures
upon the negative, a very good portrait of the corpse, and on either
side a man and a woman, their faces growing more distinct as they
looked. The artist was as much surprised as my father, and could not
account for the phenomenon. At last they called in a friend of the
family, who at once recognized and pronounced the portraits to be those
of a deceased brother and sister of the dead man. The widow corroborated
their statements, recognizing them and calling them by their names. My
father ordered the artist to take another picture, as he wanted to keep
this, and she did so, obtaining one of the dead man alone. I have not
only my fathers word for this, but that of others who were present at
the time and acquainted with the facts. Certainly, dear Mrs. Wylie, that
could have come only from actual materialized spirits before the
camera.

Unless the images were already stamped upon the plate by some natural
process before the picture was taken. The glass might have been some old
cast-off negative from a studio; or I have read of breath pictures
stamped upon window-panes by natural, if not well-understood, forces.
There might have been a mirror behind the dead man, which reflected your
father and the artist as the picture was being taken. Of course it is
very mysterious, but might have a simple explanation if we could find
it. The orientals believe they have astral bodies which they can project
at will. I am willing, I think, to believe in _anything_, rather than
spirits; for, my dear friend, even if we grant that the spirits of our
dear departed are near us, and acting as guardian-angels to us, do you
think it would be necessary for them to resort to so much that is
unpleasant and almost ludicrous in order to make us aware of their
presence? And even if they are able to make themselves visible to the
eye of the camera, is it well for us to try to communicate with them and
to seek to discover that which God has hidden from us?


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Mrs. Lucien and Mrs. Wylie discuss spiritism and the possibility of communicating with the dead. Mrs. Wylie is skeptical, but Mrs. Lucien tells her about an experience her father had with a spirit photograph. Mrs. Wylie remains skeptical, but is willing to believe in anything rather than spirits.