Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Then speeding in the opposite direction Rob found a lodging in
another inn, and slept far into the following day--the day on which
he was to meet Muckle John and win to freedom at last.  After all the
turmoil and distress of the weeks following Culloden, it was a
strange enough sensation to think of the great towns ahead in Holland
or France, where there was no dire necessity to keep one eye over
your shoulder and the other cocked upon the end of the street, and
where a Jacobite was not considered food for the nearest gallows tree.

So thinking (and yet with misgiving for all that) Rob passed cannily
out of Edinburgh and along the way to Leith, and again the dread fear
that he was being followed took possession of him.  The sun was
falling when he saw the lonesome gibbet tree stuck up against the
skyline.  On it the body of some luckless creature was swinging in
its chains--he could just catch the dreary creaking on the wind.

He looked backward for the twentieth time.  But all the desolate
landscape seemed empty of living soul or beast.

And yet he could have sworn that he had seen a head dodge behind the
tussock of coarse rank grass just on the top of the mound.  He was so
sure of it he ran back, but when he reached it there was nothing.
Then bending as a true hillsman reads the ground he saw the fresh
mark of a boot in the wet sand.

There was danger lurking amongst the dunes, and still no sign of
Muckle John.

Out on the Firth of Forth a ship was running up her canvas to the
breeze, and it set him wondering in an idle fashion whether Muckle
John might not be already aboard starting for France.

And then the sunlight faded and the greyness of the gloaming crept up
from the sea.

Clink, clink, went the chains upon the forlorn gibbet tree, and with
a deeper rustier note as the wood groaned and shuddered in its joints.

He walked slowly up the sloping sandy path.  Above him, black above
the evening sky swung the dead man--some poor soul less guilty of
wrong maybe than he himself.

Then sitting upon a heap of sand beside the dreary burden with its
dismal refrain he waited for what might befall.  That there was
danger afoot he knew instinctively, but his great reliance upon
Muckle John seemed to almost dissipate such perils.  There was a
mountain of strength in Muckle John.

The darkness was falling fast when of a sudden, like the spring of a
leopard for swiftness, a man was upon his back and with the crook of
his arm around his throat.  Uttering one faint cry Rob tumbled
backwards, and before he could struggle to his feet, his legs were
gripped by another man and a third flung himself bodily upon his
chest.

As far as Rob was concerned the question of France was over and done
with.  It was a sad enough ending to all his brave adventures to be
bowled over by three vagabonds on Leith sands, and trussed like a hen.

But there was more in it than that.

For out of the twilight came a tall man walking at his leisure, and
even before he spoke Rob knew him for Captain Strange.

"Well," he said quietly, "so this is the end, Rob, and what a braw
place to be sure.  It was almost tempting providence with that
clinking cratur to warn ye."

He motioned to the men to leave them, and sitting down began to talk
in an affable pleasant manner as though he were discussing the
weather or the price of stocks.

"Hark ye, Rob," he said, "I ken fine who ye're waiting for.  It's
Muckle John no less, and what I have in my mind I must say quickly.
Now we want this little business carried through expeditiously and
with discretion.  We do not want any pranks, mind ye, and ye ken
Muckle John as a man as full of tricks as a monkey.  I want ye to sit
here, Rob, until he comes, and promise me no to say a word to set him
thinking.  If ye carry this out I will say what I can for you when
the time comes."

"I will shout a warning while I have breath in my body," cried Rob.

"Very good," replied Strange, "very good; in that case I will gag you
surely enough, and here goes."

With that he stuffed a pad of cloth into his mouth and fastened a
bandage round his cheeks.  Then springing to his feet he listened
intently.  Very faintly the sound of whistling drifted up from the
sands.  Up above the gibbet chains creaked to and fro, and in the
tragic silence of the twilight the man came trudging to his doom.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its suspenseful, foreboding tone. The point of view is from Rob's perspective, and the reader is privy to his thoughts and feelings as he waits for Muckle John. The scene is also notable for its use of foreshadowing, as the reader is given hints that something bad is going to happen.