Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
"But to-night, when I walked there, the house--our house you
know--looked desolate and dreary, and my heart gave a big
superstitious thud when I heard what I thought was a footstep on the
verandah, but it was only a frog as big as your hat.

"That verandah cost me and Harry many a ramble into the scrub and
forest, but now it is something worth seeing, with its wealth of
climbing flowering plants, its hanging ferns, and its clustering
marvellous orchids.

"Yes, the house looks lonely; looks haunted almost; only, of course,
ghosts never come near a new house.  But, dear Elsie, how lovely it
will look when we are living in it! when light streams out from the
open casement windows! when warmth and music are there!  Oh, come
soon, come _soon_!  You see I'm still impulsive.

"You, Elsie, love pets.  I daresay Bounder will come with you.  Poor
Scallowa!  I was sorry to hear of his sad death.  But we can have all
kinds of pets here.  We have many.  To begin with, there is little
Diana, she is queen of the station, and likely to be; she is
everybody's favourite.  Then there are the collies, and the kangaroo.
He is quite a darling fellow, and goes everywhere with me.

"Our laughing jackass is improving every day.  He looks excessively
wise when you talk to him, and if touched up with the end of a brush
of turkey's feathers, which we keep for the purpose, he goes off into
such fits of mad hilarious, mocking, ringing laughter that somebody
has got to pick him up, cage and all, and make all haste out of the
house with him.

"We have also a pet bear; that is Harry's.  But don't jump.  It is no
bigger than a cat, and far tamer.  It is a most wonderful little
rascal to climb ever you saw.  Koala we call him, which is his native
name, and he is never tired of exploring the roof and rafters; but
when he wants to go to sleep, he will tie himself round Sarah's
waist, with his back downwards, and go off as sound as a top.

"We have lots of cats and a cockatoo, who is an exceedingly
mischievous one, and who spends most of his life in the garden.  He
can talk, and dance, and sing as well.  And he is a caution to
snakes, I can tell you.  I don't want to frighten you though.  We
never see the 'tiger' snake, or hardly ever, and I think the rest are
harmless.  I know the swagsmen, and the sundowners too, often kill
the carpet snake, and roast and eat it when they have no other sort
of fresh meat.  I have tasted it, and I can tell you, Rupert, it is
better than roasted rabbit.

"I'm going to have a flying squirrel.  The first time I saw these
creatures was at night among the trees, and they startled me--great
shadowy things sailing like black kites from bough to bough.

"Kangaroos are cautions.  We spend many and many a good day hunting
them.  If we did not kill them they would eat us up, or eat the
sheep's fodder up, and that would be all the same.

"Gentleman Craig has strange views about most things; he believes in
Darwin, and a deal that isn't Darwin; but he says kangaroos first got
or acquired their monster hindlegs, and their sturdy tails, from
sitting up looking over the high grass, and cropping the leaves of
bushes.  He says that Australia is two millions of years old at the
very least.

"I must say I like Craig very much.  He is so noble and handsome.
What a splendid soldier he would have made!  But with all his
grandeur of looks--I cannot call it anything else--there is an air of
pensiveness and melancholy about him that is never absent.  Even when
he smiles it is a sad smile.  Ah!  Rupert, his story is a very
strange one; but he is young yet, only twenty-six, and he is now
doing well.  He lives by himself, with just one shepherd under him,
on the very confines of civilisation.  I often fear the blacks will
bail up his hut some day, and mumkill him, and we should all be
sorry.  Craig is saving money, and I believe will be a squatter
himself one of these days.  Etheldene is very fond of him.  Sometimes
I am downright jealous and nasty about it, because I would like you,
Rupert, to have Etheldene for a wife.  And she knows all about the
black fellows, and can speak their language.  Well, you see, Rupert,
you could go and preach to and convert them; for they are not half so
bad as they are painted.  The white men often use them most cruelly,
and think no more of shooting them than I should of killing an old
man kangaroo.

"When I began this letter, dearest Elsie and old Roup, I meant to
tell you such a lot I find I shall have no chance of doing--all about
the grand trees, the wild and beautiful scenery, the birds and beasts
and insects, but I should have to write for a week to do it.  So pray
forgive my rambling letter, and come and see it all for yourself.

"Come you must, else--let me see now what I shall threaten.  Oh, I
have it; I won't ever return!  But if you do come, then in a few
years we'll all go back together, and bring out dad and the dear
mummy.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The writer describes their new home, which is located in a remote and wild area of Australia. They mention the various animals they have as pets, including a kangaroo, a cockatoo, and a bear. They also mention the various dangers of the area, including snakes and the possibility of being attacked by indigenous people. In the end, they invite their friends to come visit them, and threaten to never return home if they don't.