Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XIX.

PROOF POSITIVE.

"About a hoop of golda paltry ring that she did give me."

_Merchant of Venice._

"Is this a prologueor the poesy of a ring?
'Tis brief, my lordas woman's love."

_Hamlet._


IT will not surprise any one to hear, that there was rather a stormy
meeting between Mr. Lisle and his fellow inmate. Mr. Quentin did not
return home till nearly four o'clock, and when he did, he found his
friend sitting up for him, and this of itself constitutes an injury,
especially when the last-comer has had rather too much champagne!
Apollo arrived tired and sleepy, with tumbled locks and tie, and in a
quarrelsome, captious mood, swearing roundly as he came up the steps,
at his unhappy servantswho had spent the night in packing.

"Hullo!" he cried, seeing the other writing at the table, "not gone to
roost yet, my early bird?"

"No," looking at him gravely, "I wanted to speak to you first," rising
as he spoke and shutting the door.

"I say!" with a forced laugh, "you are not going to shoot me, eh?"

"No, I merely want to ask you why you told me that you were engaged to
Miss Denis?"

"Who says I'm not?" throwing himself into a chair, and extending his
long legs.

"She does," replied his companion laconically.

"And how dare _you_ ask her or meddle in my affairs?" blustered Mr.
Quentin in a loud voice.

"'Dare' is a foolish word to use to me, Quentin. I do not want to
quarrel with you," feeling that his adversary was not quite himself.
"But I wish to know why you deceived me in this way. What was your
motive?"

Mr. Quentin was as much sobered by the stern eyes of his _vis--vis_,
as if he had had his head immersed in a bucket of iced water.
He reviewed the circumstances with lightning speed; to tide over
to-morrow, nay, this very day, was all he wanted. In a few hours they
would be off; the _Scotia_ sailed at nine, and the chances were ten to
one that Lisle and Helen Denis would never meet in this world again.
Lisle would probably go home from the Nicobars. He could not afford to
get into his black books (for various reasons, chiefly connected with
cheque books), and he would brazen it out now. As well be hanged for a
sheep as a lamb!

"I _am_ engaged to her," he said at last.

"She says you are not; it's merely your word against hers."

"And which do you believe?"

"Well, this is no time for mincing matters. I believe Miss Denis," said
the other bluntly.

"Believe her against me? A girl you have not spoken to ten times in
your life; and you and I have lived here under the same roof like
_brothers_ for months. Oh, Gilbert Lisle!" and his beautiful blue
eyes looked quite misty, as he apostrophized his companion in a tone
as mournful as the renowned "_Et tu, Brute_."But, as I have already
stated, Jim Quentin was a consummate actor.

Mr. Lisle was rather staggered for a moment, and the other went on,

"Don't you knowbut how should you? for you don't know woman's ways,"
with a melancholy shake of the head, "that they _all_, even the
youngest and simplest of them, think it no harm to tell fibs about
their sweethearts? I give you my solemn word of honour that I've heard
an engaged girl swear she was not going to be married to a fellow up
to a week before the wedding-day. They think that being known to be
engaged, spoils their fun with other men; the more proposals they can
boast of the better. If you have been such a fool, as to believe Helen
Denis's little joke, all I can say is, that I am sorry for you!"

This was hard swearing, certainly, but it was in for a penny, in for a
pound, and the _Scotia_ sailed at nine o'clock.

Still Mr. Lisle was not convinced, and he saw it and added,


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is harsh and direct. There is little subtlety or nuance; instead, the characters speak plainly to one another, and the reader is left to draw their own conclusions. The tone is one of anger and frustration, with a hint of sadness. The point of view is limited to Mr. Lisle's perspective.