Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"I don't know whether you will get rid of me or not, Belle," said Nell
Stanley composedly. "If you mean to go to Hackle Island----"

"Father has engaged the handsomest suite at the hotel there," Belle
broke in. "I fancy Doctor Stanley will not feel like taking you all
there, Nellie. It is very expensive."

"Oh, no, if we go we sha'n't be able to live at the hotel," confessed
the clergyman's daughter. "But the children will get the benefit of the
sea air."

"Oh!" murmured Amy. "Hackle Island is a nice place."

"But it ain't as nice as mine!" Henrietta suddenly broke in. "My island
is the best. And I wouldn't let those girls on it--not on my part of
it."

"What is that ridiculous child talking about?" demanded Belle
scornfully, while Bill Brewster continued to crawl about under his car
to discover if possible what had happened to it. "What does she mean?"

"I got an island, and everything," announced Henrietta. "I'm going to
be just as rich as you are, but I won't be so mean."

"Then you would better begin by not talking meanly," advised Jessie,
admonishingly.

"Well," sniffed Henrietta, "I haven't got to let 'em on my island if I
don't want to, have I?"

"You needn't fret," laughed Sally Moon. "Your island is like your
witch's curse. All in your mind."

"Is that so?" flared out little Henrietta. "Your old picnic was just
spoiled by my bad weather, wasn't it? Well, then, wait till you try to
get on my island," and she shook a threatening head, and even her green
parasol, in her earnestness.

Sally laughed again scornfully. But Belle flounced out of the
automobile.

"Come on!" she exclaimed. "Bill will never get this car fixed."

"Oh, yes, I will, Belle," came Bill's muffled voice from under the car.
"I always do."

"Well, who wants to wait all day for you to repair it, and then ride
home with a fellow all smeared up with oil and soot? Come on, Sally."

Sally Moon meekly followed. That was how she kept in Belle Ringold's
good graces. You had to do everything Belle said, and do just as she
did, or you could not be friends with her.

"Well," Monty Shannon drawled, "as far as I think, you both can go. I
won't weep none. But Bill's going to weep when he tells his father
about this busted carriage."

"All Bill has to do is to deny it," snapped Belle Ringold. "Nobody
would believe you against our testimony."

"Nobody but the judge," laughed Amy. "Don't be such a goose, Belle. We
will all testify for Mr. Cabbage-head Tony."

Bill crawled out from under his automobile as the two girls who had
been passengers walked away. He was just as much smutted as Belle said
he would be. But he looked after her and her friend without betraying
any dissatisfaction.

"It's all right," he said to Monty. "I guess you couldn't help being in
the way. This car does go wrong once in a while. You can jump in the
car and I'll take you home and tell the chap that owns the pony how it
happened. He can come to my father and get paid."

"Not much," said the Dogtown boy. "I'll have to lead the pony. But you
can take Hen back to Dogtown."

"Is it safe?" asked Jessie, for Henrietta had started for the red car
at once. She was crazy about automobiles.

"If it goes bad again I can get out," said the child importantly. "I
won't wait for it to turn topsy-turvy."

"She will be all right," said Bill Brewster gloomily. "Father will
make me pay for this carriage out of my own money. I'm rather glad we
are going where I can't use the machine for the rest of the summer. It
eats up all my pocket money."

"Where are your folks going, Billy?" asked Jessie politely.

"Oh, we always go to Hackle Island."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is light and humorous. There is a bit of dialogue between the characters, but it is not particularly deep or meaningful. The tone is playful and there is a bit of teasing between the characters. The point of view is third person omniscient.