What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
IV

UNCERTAINTIES


"It is lucky Henrietta went away before papa came," observed Amy, after
they had discussed the strange matter at some length. "She certainly
would have been mad to learn that Belle and Sally were likely to visit
what she calls her island, without any invitation from her."

"What do you suppose it all means?" asked Jessie.

"She must have heard some mixed-up account of an island that belonged
to her family," Nell said, "and got it twisted. I can't see it any
other way. But I must go home now, girls. The Reverend and the children
need looking after by this time. Good-bye."

Mr. Drew did not explain until evening about his previous knowledge of
the island in question. Then he came over to smoke his after-dinner
cigar on the Norwood's porch, and he and Jessie's father discussed the
matter within the hearing of their two very much interested daughters.
When their fathers did not object, Jessie and Amy often "listened in"
on business conversations, and this one was certainly important to the
minds of the two chums.

"Did Blair telephone you to-day again about that matter?" Mr. Norwood
asked his neighbor.

"No. It was Mr. Stratford himself. Takes an interest in Blair's
affairs, you know."

"It really concerns that Bertha Blair who was of so much value to me in
the Ellison will case. You remember?" observed Mr. Norwood.

"And it concerns this little freckle-faced child the girls have had
around here so much. Actually, if the thing pans out the way it looks,
Norwood, that child has got something coming to her."

"She has a good deal coming to her if she can prove she is the daughter
of Padriac Haney," said Jessie's father, with vigor.

"You are inclined to take the matter up?"

"I am. I'll do all I can. Blair has no money to risk----"

"He won't need any," said Mr. Drew, quite as decisively. "If you can
spend your time on it, so can I. It won't break us, Norwood, to help
the child."

"Not at all," agreed Mr. Norwood, generously.

"But is it really true, Daddy, that Hackle Island belongs to little
Henrietta and Bertha?" asked Jessie.

"A good part of it, apparently. All of the middle of the island," he
returned. "The Government owns Sable Point where the old lighthouse
stands and where the radio station is now established. That has been a
government reservation for years. At the other end is the Hackle Island
Hotel, always popular with a certain class of moneyed people."

"I have been there," said Mr. Drew, nodding. "But there is a bunch of
bungalows in between----"

"By the way," interposed Mr. Norwood, "my wife said something about
taking one of those for a month or two. I have the tentative offer of
one."

"O-oh!" gasped Amy, clasping her hands.

Her father laughed outright. "See," he said to the other lawyer. "You
are going to have a guest, if you go there. I can see that."

"The bungalow is big enough for the girls and their friends," admitted
Jessie's father.

"That beats the farm!" cried Amy to Jessie.

"It will be nice. And we can take Henrietta and Bertha along."

"They are going in any case, I hear from Blair," said Mr. Norwood
briskly. "His wife will take them. There is an old farmhouse that
belongs to the Haney estate. You see, a part of the bungalow colony
and the Club golf course are included in the old Haney place. The real
estate men who exploited the island a few years ago did not trouble
themselves to get clear title to the land. They made their bit and
got out. Now there are two parties laying claim to the middle of the
island."

"Oh, dear!" cried Jessie. "Then it isn't sure that little Henrietta
will get her island? Too bad!"


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the conflict over Hackle Island and to establish the characters' positions in the conflict. The author achieves this by having the fathers of Jessie and Amy discuss the matter in front of their daughters, who are interested in the outcome because of their friendship with Henrietta.