What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XXIV

THE MYSTERIOUS MESSAGE


Henrietta Haney was a very lonely little girl after the yacht sailed
from Station Island. Not that she had nobody to play with, for she
had. There were other children besides Sally Stanley of her own age,
or thereabout, in the bungalow colony. And as she had been in Dogtown,
Henrietta soon became the leading spirit of her crowd.

She even taught them some of her games, and once more became "Spotted
Snake, the Witch," and scared some of the children almost as much as
she had scared the Dogtown youngsters with her supposed occult powers.

She was running and screaming and tearing her clothes most of the time
when she was away from Mrs. Norwood, but in the company of Jessie's
mother she truly tried to "be a little lady."

"Be it ever so painful, little Hen is going to learn to be worthy of
you and Jessie, Mary," laughed Mrs. Drew, who was like her daughter in
being able always to see the fun in things. "What do you really expect
will come of the child?"

"I think she will make quite a woman in time. And before that time
arrives," added Mrs. Norwood, "she has much to learn, as you say. In
some ways Henrietta has had an unhappy childhood--although she doesn't
know it. I hope she will have better times from now on."

"You are sure to make her have good times, Mary," said Mrs. Drew. "I
hope she will appreciate all that Jessie and you do for her."

"She is rather young for one to expect appreciation from her," Mrs.
Norwood said, smiling. "But the little thing is grateful."

Without Jessie and Amy, however, Henrietta confessed she was very
lonely. Sometimes she listened to the radio all alone, sitting
quietly and hearing even lectures and business talks out of the air
that ordinarily could not have interested the child. But she said it
reminded her of "Miss Jessie" just to sit with the ear-tabs on.

She had heard about the older girls going to the lighthouse station to
interview the wireless operator there, and although Henrietta knew that
the government reservation at that end of the island was no part of the
old Padriac Haney estate, she wandered down there alone on the second
day of the yacht's absence and climbed up into the tower.

The storm had blown itself out on shore, and the sun was going down in
golden glory. Out at sea, although the waves still rolled high and the
clouds were tumultuous in appearance, there was nothing to threaten a
continuation of the unsettled weather.

Henrietta had no idea how long it would be before the yacht reached
Boston, although she had heard a good deal of talk about it. She had
watched the _Marigold_ steam out of sight into the east, and it seemed
to the little girl that her friends were just there, beyond the horizon
line, where she had seen the last patch of the _Marigold's_ smoke
disappear.

The wireless operator had seen Henrietta before, cavorting about the
beach and leading the other children in their play, and he was prepared
for some of her oddities. But she surprised him by her very first
speech.

"You're the man that can send words out over the ocean, aren't you?"

"I can send signals," he admitted, but rather puzzled.

"Can folks like Miss Jessie and Miss Amy hear 'em?" demanded Henrietta.

"Only if they are on a boat that has a wireless outfit."

"They got it on that _Marigold_," announced Henrietta.

"Oh! The yacht that sailed yesterday! Yes, she carried antenna."

"And she carried Doctor Stanley and Miss Nell Stanley, too, besides the
boys, Mr. Darry and Mr. Burd," said Henrietta. "Then they can hear you?"

"If they know how to use the wireless they could catch a signal from
this station."

"Miss Jessie knows all about radio," said Henrietta. "She made it."

"Oh, she did?"

"Yes. She made it all up. She and Miss Amy built them one at Roselawn.
That was before Montmorency Shannon built his. Well, Miss Jessie is out
there on the _Marigold_."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the character of Henrietta Haney and to provide some background information about her. The author achieves this by having Henrietta interact with the wireless operator and revealing her loneliness and her love for Jessie.