Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
From here on we climbed interminable stairways, passed through numerous
corridors and chambers, all of which were illuminated by the
radium-bearing substance which coated their walls and ceilings, and then
we emerged suddenly upon a terrace into the open air, and I obtained my
first view of a lunar city. It was built around a crater, and the
buildings were terraced back from the rim, the terraces being generally
devoted to the raising of garden truck and the principal fruit-bearing
trees and shrubs. The city extended upward several hundred feet, the
houses, as I learned later, being built one upon another, the great
majority of them, therefore, being without windows looking upon the
outer world.

I was led along the terrace for a short distance, and during this brief
opportunity for observation I deduced that the cultivated terraces lay
upon the roofs of the tier of buildings next below. To my right I could
see the terraced steps extending downward to the rim of the crater.
Nearly all the terraces were covered with vegetation, and in numerous
places I saw what appeared to be Va-gas feeding upon the plants, and
this I later learned was the fact, and that the Kalkars, when they are
able to capture members of the race of Va-gas, keep them in captivity
and breed them as we breed cattle, for their flesh. It is necessary, to
some extent, to change the diet of the Va-gas almost exclusively to
vegetation, though this diet is supplemented by the flesh of the
Kalkars, and their Laythean slaves who die, the Va-gas thus being
compelled to serve the double purpose of producing flesh for the Kalkars
and acting as their scavengers as well.

Upon my left were the faces of buildings, uniformly two stories in
height, with an occasional slender tower rising fifteen, twenty or
sometimes as high as thirty feet from the terraced roofs above. It was
into one of these buildings that my captors led me after we had
proceeded a short distance along the terrace, and I found myself in a
large apartment in which were a number of male Kalkars, and at a desk
facing the entrance a large, entirely bald man who appeared to be of
considerable age. To this person I was led by Gapth, who narrated my
capture and the escape of Nah-ee-lah.

The fellow before whom I had been brought questioned me briefly. He made
no comment when I told him that I was from another world, but he
examined my garments rather carefully and then after a moment turned to
Gapth.

We will hold him for questioning by The Twentyfour, he said. If he is
not of Va-nah he is neither Kalkar nor Laythean, and consequently, he
must be flesh of a lower order and therefore may be eaten. He paused a
moment and fell to examining a large book which seemed to be filled with
plans upon which strange hieroglyphics appeared. He turned over several
leaves, and finally coming evidently to the page he sought, he ran a
forefinger slowly over it until it came to rest near the center of the
plat. You may confine him here, he said to Gapth, in chamber eight of
the twenty-fourth section, at the seventh elevation, and you will
produce him upon orders from The Twentyfour when next they meet, and
then to me: It is impossible for you to escape from the city, but if
you attempt it, it may be difficult for us to find you again immediately
and when we do you will be tortured to death as an example to other
slaves. Go!

I went; following Gapth and the others who had conducted me to the
presence of this creature. They led me back into the very corridor from
which we had emerged upon the terrace and then straight into the heart
of that amazing pile for fully half a mile, where they shoved me roughly
into an apartment at the right of the corridor with the admonition that
I stay there until I was wanted.

I found myself in a dimly lighted, rectangular room, the air of which
was very poor, and at the first glance I discovered that I was not
alone, for upon a bench against the opposite wall sat a man. He looked
up as I entered and I saw that his features were very fine and that he
had black hair like Nah-ee-lah. He looked at me for a moment with a
puzzled expression in his eyes and then he addressed me.

You, too, are a slave? he asked.

I am not a slave, I replied, I am a prisoner.

It is all the same, he said; but from whence come you? I have never
seen your like before in Va-nah.

I do not come from Va-nah, I replied, and then I briefly explained my
origin and how I came to be in his world. He did not understand me, I am
sure, for though he seemed to be, and really was, highly intelligent, he
could not conceive of any condition concerning which he had had no
experience and in this way he did not differ materially from intelligent
and highly educated Earth Men.

And you, I asked, at lengthyou are not a Kalkar? From whence come
you?

I am from Laythe, he replied. I fell outside the city and was
captured by one of their hunting parties.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very matter-of-fact and straightforward. There is no hint of emotion or feeling, and the point of view is that of an objective narrator.