Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The Grand Duchess, Melusine and I went back to the left wing of the
palace. It was about six o'clock. The day already promised to be very
hot, for the summer sun rose red over the awful scene of desolation.

Melusine had joined us when the fire first began. She had spent the time
helping the Grand Duchess to attend to the injured firemen and soldiers,
who had been taken to the banqueting-hall.

Aurora hadn't a word to say as she walked, and, busied with the burden
of our own reflections, we respected her silence.

Suddenly she raised her head and smilingly showed me something in the
blue sky, already turning white with heat.

A bird, coming from the east, was flying above our heads. It had a
curious, jerky flight, now rising, now falling, the flight of birds with
short wings, like the quail and partridge.

It disappeared to our left in the depths of the English garden by the
Melna.

A second, then a third flew by and passed out of sight at the same spot.
Then a score or more followed.

"The first missel-thrushes," said Aurora. "They are going to the sorbs
of the Melna."

We had now reached her apartments. "Poor Melusine," she said in a
curious tone; "you're absolutely done up. You must go and rest. I'm
going to my bower to try and get a little recreation with those birds."

"I want to come, too," said Melusine.

"No, no!" replied the Grand Duchess. "Raoul Vignerte will come with me.
I've something to say to him. You _must_ go and rest. I order it. Just
bring me down my gun and some cartridges. Lend yours to Vignerte. He's
left his own behind, under the ruins of the castle."

The girl still insisted on going with us.

"Go!" said Aurora sternly.

Melusine left us. She seemed almost dead with fatigue and the strain.

To avoid disturbing the thrushes we took a winding path to the bower,
where I had had my first interview with the Grand Duchess of Lautenburg.
Every now and then we saw a thrush rise above the clumps of sorbs, take
a good look round and then drop down, satisfied.

When we were in the leafy tunnel I thought we should have to make some
kind of loophole, for the foliage was amazingly thick, and shut us in
with its green, almost opaque wall.

The Grand Duchess didn't seem to mind. She had not spoken a word as we
walked. Her face wore an expression of firm resolution. I hadn't broken
the silence either. What could I have said? I'm sure our thoughts were
the same at that tragic moment. What was the good of exchanging them?

Suddenly the set expression of her features relaxed a little. She began
to talk in low tones. I was astounded by her extraordinary conversation,
and the not less extraordinary notion of going there at such a moment to
shoot the birds, whose habits she was describing.

Her loaded gun lay across her knees, and she had a curious smile, which
made me think that the events of the night must have turned her brain.
This is what she said:

"Missel-thrushes. You know them well. They're like ordinary thrushes,
only larger. They're on you very much quicker. Very difficult to shoot,
though they don't look it. Treacherous creatures. You know they're near,
as we do now. But you can't see them. You guess where they are and when
to fire. I'm used to them myself. So when I say 'Fire,' and show you the
direction, you must fire. Don't worry about a target. You'll go and look
and there'll be a thrush on the ground."

She lowered her voice until it became a mere whisper, then, stretching
out her arm, she pointed to something, an imperceptible rustling in the
thick foliage.

"Fire!" she ordered, "fire, now, fire!"

"But I can't see anything," I said, disconcerted.

"Fool," she murmured. "I will then."

She raised her gun to her shoulder and fired.

A bang, then a terrible heartrending scream.

I trembled like the leaves which were still quivering under the shower
of lead.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very matter-of-fact and straightforward. There is no hint of emotion or feeling, and the events are described in a very matter-of-fact way. This makes the scene all the more shocking when the Grand Duchess suddenly snaps and starts shooting at the birds.