Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XXII

A RADIO CALL THAT FAILED


"Of course," Amy said composedly, "if worse comes to worst, we can send
the news by radio that the yacht is sinking and bring to our rescue
somebody--somebody----"

"Yes, we can!" exclaimed Burd Alling. "A revenue cutter, I suppose?
Don't you suppose the United States Government has anything better to
do than to look out for people who don't know enough to look out for
themselves?"

"That seems to be the Government's mission a good deal of the time,"
replied Dr. Stanley, with a smile. "But you don't think it will
be necessary to call for help, do you, Darrington?" he asked the
sober-looking owner of the yacht.

"Well, the fire's out, that's sure----"

"You bet it is!" growled Burd. "It had to be out, there's so much water
in the hold."

"But we are not sinking!" cried Amy.

"Lucky we're not," said Burd. "The radio doesn't work."

"Why, how you talk," Nell said admonishingly. "You would scare us if
we did not know you so well, Burd."

"You don't know the half of it!" exclaimed the young fellow. "Fuel is
getting low, too. Skipper wants us to work the pump by hand. That means
Darry and me to 'man the pumps.'"

"And we can help," said Jessie, cheerfully. "If the skipper thinks he
needs to make more steam for the engines, why can't we all take turns
at the pump?"

"Sounds like a real shipwreck story," her chum observed, but doubtfully.

"It will cause a mutiny," declared Burd. "I didn't ship on the
_Marigold_ to work like Old Bowser on the treadmill. And that is about
how I feel."

"You can get out and walk if you don't like it," Darry reminded him.

"And I suppose you think I wouldn't. For two cents----"

Just then the yacht pitched sharply and Burd almost lost his footing.
The waves were really boisterous and occasionally a squall of rain
swooped down and, with the spray, wet the entire deck and those upon it.

Jessie was not greatly afraid of the elements or of what they could
do to the yacht. But she was made anxious by the repetition of the
statement that the radio was out of order. Originally the _Marigold_
had had a small wireless plant, with storage batteries. Signals by
Morse could be exchanged with other ships and with stations ashore
within a limited distance.

But when Darry had bought the radio receiving set he had disconnected
the broadcasting machine and linked up the regenerative circuit with
the stationary batteries. As he had explained to Jessie, both systems
could not be used at once.

They had found that neither the receiving set nor the old wireless set
worked well. It looked as though the boys had overlooked something in
rigging the new set and the radio girls quite realized that in this
emergency a general and perhaps a thorough overhauling of the wires and
connections would be necessary to discover just where the fault lay.

Jessie called Amy, and they went up into the little wireless room
behind the wheelhouse where everything about the plant but the
batteries were in place. This was a very different outfit from that in
the great station at the old lighthouse on Station Island, which they
had visited several days before.

"If we only knew as much as that operator does about wireless," sighed
Jessie to her chum, "there might be some hope of our untangling all
this and finding out the trouble."

"He said he had been five years at it and didn't know so very much,"
Amy reminded her dryly.

"Oh, there will always be something new to learn about radio,
of course," her chum agreed. "But if we had his training in the
fundamentals of radio, we would be equipped to handle such a mess as
this. To tell you the truth, Amy, I think these two boys have made a
cat's cradle of this thing."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward, with a focus on the characters' dialogue and actions. There is a bit of tension created by the situation (the yacht is sinking and the radio is out), but overall the tone is fairly calm. The point of view is third person limited, with the focus on Jessie's thoughts and feelings.