Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XIII

The Fugitive


Long, weary miles stretched out behind The Pup as he wheeled his
tired pony through the brush bordering the stream and allowed him to
dip his nose in the cool water, drinking in noisy mouthfuls. Long,
weary miles behind--and what before? Would the miles be any shorter,
the road less wearisome? Would the midday sun be more merciful, or
the nights more friendly?

As his horse drank, The Pup shifted uneasily in the saddle, and,
turning his head, peered quickly behind him. This gesture had become
almost automatic in these last few days. Always, whenever he halted,
his eyes would seek for some hidden enemy, and at the slightest
sound his hand would twitch down to the gun at his side. But how
guard against one enemy when the very woods themselves seemed
hostile and the song of the birds sounded a note of continual
warning? The man shivered apprehensively.

Savagely The Pup pulled his ponys head up, causing the animal to
whinny in pain at the suddenness of it.

Gonna drink all day? the man muttered, then shivered slightly. It
was long since he had tasted food. Perhaps the memory of his last
meal caused him to regret his cruelty to the bronco, for he allowed
him to continue his drinking until fully satisfied.

He was about to dismount and quench his own thirst when a sound of
voices and the splash of paddles pulled him up short, froze the
blood in his veins. Panic-stricken, he gazed frantically out from
the small bower of brush in which he was encased. As the splash of
paddles grew nearer, The Pups heart kept time with their beat,
almost choking him with its fierce throbbing. Men! On his trail! He
_must_ move--_must_ force his muscles to act! Yet he sat there, his
face a sickly grey, his breath coming in short gasps.

Now the bow of the canoe slid into his line of vision. In another
second--a fifth of a second--those in the craft would see him. Who
were they? Did they know him? Could they be--

His lips pressed together suddenly, forcing back the cry of fear
that strove for utterance. They were! Roy and Teddy Manley! And two
others! The men he had robbed! There, before him, looking at him!

With a sob he threw off the coils of terror that held him rooted to
the spot and jerked his pony around desperately, sinking spurs deep
into the animals sides. A single, frantic bound took him through
the brush and out of sight of those on the river. Then, trembling
violently, he gave the pain-maddened brute his head and clung
fiercely to the saddle as the horse bore him swiftly over the uneven
ground--back, far back from that dangerous stream.

Gradually his mind resumed more normal action, realizing that, for
the present at least, he was safe from pursuit. Teddy and Roy were
in a boat. He was on horseback, and miles from them now. Safe--he
was safe! The Pup drew a wavering sigh of relief.

Slowly, stolidly, he continued his onward ride, once more parallel
with the river, but at some distance from it. He had not gotten his
drink after all, and thirst clutched his throat with hot, feverish
fingers. Would he dare to return to the stream, to brave his
pursuers, to shout--Come an take me! But Im thirsty, I tell
you--thirsty!

The very thought set him to trembling again. He must not think of
such things. Of what use now was the roll of bills in his pocket?
The whole sum could not buy him a single drink. He took them out and
gazed at the greenbacks dully. Then, shrugging his shoulders, he
replaced them and ran his tongue over his parched lips. Part of the
money was gone--spent for whiskey that had proved a traitor, that
burned him now, as it had soothed before.

He had to go on--always on. Mexico was ahead--Mexico and safety,
Mexico and long, cooling drinks in tall glasses. The Pup grinned to
himself. Togas, the town of his birth, lay just across the Border.
They had thought his name was Marino! Well, that name was as good as
any other. If he had given his real name, old Manley would never
have hired him, for it was a name that still lingered in the minds
of some of the vaqueros of the South. Marino--or, to give him his
right name, Jules Kolto--was born a Mexican, although early in life
he had recognized the value of concealing the place of his birth
from his companions. A Mexican was not respected in his line of
business--a business carried on at the muzzle of a revolver or at
the point of a knife. For Jules Kolto had been a highwayman.

It was seven years since he had robbed any one. There was a girl in
Togas--his sister--who had decided the matter for him. He had
supported her and his mother out of the fruits of his profession,
and neither of them knew what that profession was until one day his
sister met him at the door of their home and led him gently within.
His mother lay on a couch, her face waxen. In her hand she grasped a
paper--a paper with his picture on it and Five Hundred Dollars
Reward printed below. He had killed his own mother.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The Pup is a fugitive, on the run from the law. He is tired, thirsty, and hungry, and his horse is also tired. He comes to a stream and dismounts to let his horse drink. As the horse drinks, The Pup nervously scans the area for any sign of pursuers. Suddenly, he hears voices and the splash of paddles, and he realizes that his pursuers are close by.
The Pup is paralyzed with fear, but he manages to snap out of it and spur his horse to action. He flees the scene, with his pursuers close behind him. He is able to lose them, but he is now miles from the stream and still thirsty. He is debating whether or not to go back to the stream to get a drink, when he hears more voices. This time, it is his victims, the men he robbed.
The Pup is once again filled with terror, and he flees the scene. He rides all day and into the night, finally stopping to rest. He is still thirsty, and he is debating whether or not to risk going back to the stream. He decides against it and tries to sleep, but he is plagued by thirst and hunger. He gets up and starts riding again, hoping to reach Mexico and safety.