Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Fallon picked up the objects McCauley had given him. He spoke with
sudden truculence.

"Well?" he said. "What can you do? Just suppose I don't feel like
giving these things back. I'm going to, but if I wouldn't do it, what'd
you do?... You won't even tell the rest you caught me! You want the
stuff put back without their knowing it was taken!"

"Yes-s-s," McCauley said very slowly. "That's right. I shan't tell
the rest. I want things to go along smoothly, without squabbles or
suspicions. But you want excitement, more than our job provides. You'll
look for it in some other fashion now, won't you?"

Fallon said defiantly:

"I'll do what I feel like doing!"

"Yes," said McCauley, nodding. "You'll get your excitement regardless.
You're as independent as a hog on ice, because you think that I can't
do anything to stop you. Very well. I'll try to provide you with some
excitement. You do what you please. I'll do what I please about it."

Fallon's eyes narrowed.

"You don't care what I do?" he demanded skeptically.

"I do care," McCauley told him. "You're the one who doesn't care. But
I'll be able to make use of you somehow. All right; you can go, now."

Fallon hesitated, scowling. Then he went out. He was uneasy. He could
have understood had McCauley threatened him, or flown into a rage, or
possibly tried to appeal to a nonexistent loyalty to his companions or
to the purposes of the Expedition. But McCauley had not reacted in any
fashion that Fallon could understand.

Later in the day Randy consulted with McCauley.

"Funny thing happened," he said vexedly. "Fallon went around and gave
Brett back his fancy gold pen. He said he'd taken it for a joke. He
gave Soames back his luck-piece and Hathaway his watch. He explained
that they were jokes, too. He gave me mine.... Did you get yours back?"

McCauley nodded. He explained what had happened. Randy blinked.

"But why didn't he just slip them back like you told him to?"

"He's worried," said McCauley. "I didn't threaten and I didn't reason
with him. So he figures that I've something special in mind. So he
wants to be on good terms with everybody but me. Now if I accused him
of stealing, he could insist that he was joking and that he'd proved
it."

"That's crazy!" said Randy.

McCauley did not contradict him. He shrugged. Presently Randy went out
on the surface of Eros. A single incautious movement might send him
floating off into emptiness except for the moorings to the drilled-in
metal rods that anchored supplies and ship and crew alike. On the
nickel-iron surface of the asteroid, to be sure, magnetic-soled shoes
ought to hold a man down. But the emergency wasn't great enough to make
depending on them necessary. Everyone kept himself anchored to a drill
rod, and did not let go, anywhere, until another anchorage had been
secured.

The five-mile-long and two-mile-thick mass that was Eros floated onward
in its orbit. It rotated very slowly--its day was half an hour and
its night was thirty minutes--and all the stars appeared in turn,
including that nearest star which was the sun. The Milky Way spread
incredibly across the sky. Earth was blue-green and a bare speck of a
crescent--a crescent because it was to sunward, and a speck because
it was well over forty millions of miles away. Mars, to the outward,
was a perceptible disk the size of a quarter at forty feet. Already
photographs taken on spaceships and sent back to Earth by scanning
signal had disclosed features that even the giant telescopes on the
moon had not detected. Randy claimed to have seen Phobos and Deimos
with his naked eye, and perhaps he had. But most of the crew were too
busy for more than an occasional glance out at Mars.

The supply items to be carried by each drone rocket had to be regrouped
so that no one rocket would contain a disproportionate amount of any
one kind of supplies. It was to be expected that some loads would be
lost, so it was important to make sure that no one load, if it was not
landed or recovered, would cause crippling shortages of this item or
that.

There was, though, one bit of freight that would not be trusted to
rocket transport. The fuel for the atom-pile would go on the ship,
because if the ship did not land safely there'd be no Expedition, and
if it landed safely, the atomic fuel would be essential. The thin air
of Mars would have to be pumped up to the pressure required by the
human body, and its oxygen would have to be concentrated. There would
be need for heat during the bitter Martian nights. Power was necessary
for human life on Mars. And only atomic power would be adequate.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is mostly exposition, with some dialogue. The tone is calm and matter-of-fact. The point of view is third person limited.