Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
4. THE COURT


I doubt whether I should say "Court" in speaking of the entourage of the
Dukes of Lautenburg. The word is somewhat too heavy, but it fits in well
enough with the rigid etiquette which reigned at the castle.

I have already spoken of Major Count Albert von Kessel, of the 11th
Prussian Artillery Regiment, stationed at Knigsberg. He passed out top
of the _Kriegs Academie_ at Berlin, and is undoubtedly one of the best
officers in the German Army. He's an officer to his finger-tips, and
although devoted body and soul to his profession, displays only the
inevitable minimum of that impossible Prussian arrogance. He always
treated me with the most perfect courtesy, and I have nothing but praise
for the advice he gave me and the influence he had over Duke Joachim.

Portly Colonel von Wendel, of Hanau Cuirassiers, combines the functions
of governor of the palace and head of the military household of the
Grand Duke. In the second capacity he has under his orders Captain
Mller, of the Wrtemberg Chasseurs, and Lieutenants Bernhardt and von
Choisly, Uhlans and officers of the Grand Duke's staff.

He is a good sort, who spends his time shouting when the Grand Duke
isn't there, and trembling like an aspen leaf when he is. I suspect
Kessel has a profound contempt for him. He, on the other hand, treats
Kessel, who is on the Great General Staff, with the greatest deference.
It would never enter his head that his double functions authorize him to
give orders to the taciturn artilleryman.

His _bte-noire_, however, is little Lieutenant von Hagen, of the
Lautenburg Hussars, the Grand Duchess's orderly officer. Rows between
the Colonel and the Lieutenant are of frequent occurrence, but the
junior is backed by the Grand Duchess, who cannot do without him. The
Grand Duke won't hear a word against him. Wendel has to give way. In the
first few days I became conscious of the mutual hatred of these two men.
Without ever getting as far as confidences, the Governor of the castle
made two or three bitter remarks about the difficulties of his task. I
felt that with a little encouragement...

But I'd promised to keep to my own job and never mix myself up in their
affairs.

All the same, little Hagen irritated me beyond words, with his monocle,
his way of looking you up and down, and the self-satisfaction of the man
who feels secure against anything. He had been attached as orderly to
the Grand Duchess for two years, and I understand that at the time she
took him from the Lautenburg Hussars he was on the point of blowing his
brains out as a result of some gaming scandal.

The rest, on the whole, are pleasant enough. They became a good deal
more agreeable when they learned I "was an officer of the Reserve." That
day Colonel von Wendel asked me to dinner. Frau von Wendel, a motherly,
red-haired woman of forty, called me "Monsieur le lieutenant." At
dessert she asked me in a tender voice if I had read the "Fiance de
Messine." After all this was a better way of spending my time than at
the Sorbonne attending the lectures of M. Seignobos. I only mention his
name because it will do as well as any other.




5. THE LIBRARY AND THE LIBRARIAN


The former plays so considerable a part in my story, that I must devote
a little space to a description of it. As for the latter, Professor
Cyrus Beck, of Kiel University, it seems only just that I should say a
few words in praise of the man of whose death I have been the innocent
cause.

The library had been fitted up in the dismantled chapel of the castle, a
chapel somewhat in the Jesuitical style having been built in the palace.

The beautiful ogival chamber which cuts the great hall and the armoury
at right angles has thus been laid open. The door on the left leads to
the armoury, and the way into the library is by the door at the far end
of the great hall.

Though three or four times larger, it bears a strong resemblance to the
library of the Chteau de Montesquieu at La Brde, except that, if I
remember rightly, the vaulting at La Brde is romanesque. Otherwise the
general plan is the same. In the centre there is a huge case containing
a remarkable collection of coins, among them a gold medallion of
Conradin, which is a masterpiece. Five or six lecterns have been
transformed into portable desks, the very thing for working. A splendid
system of electric light makes research an easy matter, for the room is,
indeed, so dark that it is impossible to read or write without
artificial light.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The author has a formal, third-person point of view and describes the scene in detail. There is a sense of foreboding throughout the passage.