What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"Yes, but what brought _you_ here?" I answered. "Shanghaied?"

"Yes, I suppose so," he chuckled. "Fact is, I went on a dreadful bat
the night I left you. Wonder what the folks at home'll think--and the
commandant at the academy?"

He did not seem to feel his position, and I answered coldly: "Looks as
though your prospects were done for."

Then, along came the first mate, carrying wrist irons, and the skipper,
with a pistol.

"Where's this man killer?" demanded the mate, stalking up to us. Fred
did not flinch; he looked him squarely in the eye. But I, spying
the skipper's gun on a level with my head, stepped back into the
forecastle. Our combined attitude influenced the mate.

"You!" he snarled at me. "Come out of that."

He sprang to the door, the manacles swinging over his head, and before
I could dodge he had laid my cheek open with the blow.

Though I had done my deep-water sailing under American mates--the
harshest in the world--I had never yet, in my whole nine years at sea,
received a blow; and, as second mate in big schooners, I had not found
need to strike one. The pain and the shock of this assault upon my
person and dignity drove out of me every sentiment and attribute of a
civilized man trained to respect authority--all regard for law except
the great first law, and for a few moments I was an animal. And in
those few moments the mate died.

He was a large, strong man, but I was his equal. I do not know just
what part of his body I first closed my hands upon. I only know that
my thick finger nails sank in, wherever I gripped. He seemed no harder
than a ripe melon, and I shifted my hold, while we reeled about, again
and again, until I had him by the throat; then, with all my strength, I
closed my hands until my thumb and finger nails met--somewhere. Then my
limited consciousness went out in a flash of light, ending in darkness;
and, when I came to, I was ironed in the lazaret, my head aching badly,
blood on my face; and Fred, also manacled, sitting opposite, and
looking at me. I could see, even in the half light, that his eyes were
red from weeping.

"What's happened?" I asked, as I painfully sat up, and looked at my
manacles.

"Oh, you're in for it," he answered loftily, yet with a jerky,
hysterical twang to his voice. "You killed the mate, and the captain
thinks I've killed the second mate. He struck you down with an iron
belaying pin, and held me under his gun while the steward put the irons
on us both. Oh, why did you do it? What will become of me?" He began to
cry.

"Shut up, you whimpering ninny!" I growled. "What troubles me just now
is, what kind of a man _are_ you? You can fight, but you cry over it.
If I killed the mate, I expect to swing for it, but I'm not crying."

"But I wouldn't have done it if you hadn't appeared," he quavered. "You
encouraged me."

"What's that? You'll say I encouraged you to drink next, and get
shanghaied!"

"You did. I never drank in my life till I met you, the other night. I
never fought anybody. I never swore. I woke up last night aboard this
ship, but I don't know how I got here. It must have been because you
shipped."

"Yes, and pulled you on board with an invisible rope! Stop that kind of
talk. I want to sleep."

I felt the stupor that comes of extreme physical pain; for, besides the
bruise on my head, caused by the captain's belaying pin, every bone and
joint ached with the exertions I had put forth in my struggle with the
mate. I lay back, but Fred would not be still. He mumbled to himself
and a few words that I caught indicated that he wanted a drink. Opening
my eyes and looking, I beheld him brushing his knees, and squirming to
the length of his tether, as though to get away from something.

"Drive it off, Jim," he choked. "Kick it away. It's afraid of you."

Wondering what was in his mind, yet remembering the incident of his
childhood and my own late nightmares, I struck out with my heels, and
firmly commanded the creature to go. It went, I suppose, for he thanked
me, and subsided; then I lay back, and was almost asleep when he roused
me again, this time with a shriek.

"The thing!" he gasped. "The thing without legs, or arms, or head! Help
me, Jim!"


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Jim and Fred, and to set up the conflict between them. Jim is a tough, no-nonsense sailor who has been through a lot in his career. He is unafraid of violence and is willing to accept the consequences of his actions. Fred, on the other hand, is a weak and cowardly man who is easily scared and quick to cry. He is also easily influenced by others, as evidenced by the fact that he began drinking and fighting only after meeting Jim.