Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
We must not leave the Jemadav alone, he said. Return and remain at
her side, Ju-lan the Javadar, and when the last of us has fallen, drive
your dagger into her heart.

I shuddered and turned back toward Nah-ee-lah. The very thought of
plunging my dagger into that tender bosom fairly nauseated me. There
must be some other way, and yet, what other means of escape could there
be for Nah-ee-lah, who preferred death to the dishonor of surrender to
Ko-tah, the murderer of her father? As I reached Nah-ee-lahs side, and
turned again to face the entrance to the throne room, I saw that the
warriors of Ko-tah were being pushed into the chamber by the mob behind
them and that our defenders were being overwhelmed by the great number
of their antagonists. Ko-tah, with a half-dozen warriors, had been
carried forward, practically without volition, by the press of numbers
in their rear, and even now, with none to intercept him, was running
rapidly up the broad center aisle toward the throne. Some of those in
the entrance way saw him, and as he reached the foot of the steps
leading to the dais, a snarling cry arose:

Ko-tah the Jemadar!

With bared sword, the fellow leaped toward me where I stood alone
between Nah-ee-lah and her enemies.

Surrender, Julian! she cried. It is futile to oppose them. You are
not of Laythe. Neither duty nor honor impose upon you the necessity of
offering your life for one of us. Spare him, Ko-tah! she cried to the
advancing Javadar, and I will bow to the will of the people and
relinquish the throne to you.

Ko-tah the traitor shall never sit upon the throne of Nah-ee-lah! I
exclaimed, and leaping forward, I engaged the Prince of Laythe.

His warriors were close behind him, and it behooved me to work fast, and
so I fought as I had never guessed that it lay within me to fight, and
at the instant that the rabble broke through the remaining defenders and
poured into the throne room of the Jemadars of Laythe, I slipped my
point into the heart of Ko-tah. With a single piercing shriek, he threw
his hands above his head and toppled backward down the steps to lie dead
at the foot of the throne he had betrayed.

For an instant the silence of death reigned in the great chamber. Friend
and foe stood alike in the momentary paralysis of shocked surprise.

That tense, breathless silence had endured for but a moment, when it was
shattered by a terrific detonation. We felt the palace tremble and rock.
The assembled mob looked wildly about, their eyes filled with fear and
questioning. But before they could voice a question, another thunderous
report burst upon our startled ears, and then from the city below the
palace there arose the shrieks and screams of terrified people. Again
the palace trembled, and a great crack opened in one of the walls of the
throne room. The people saw it, and in an instant their anger against
the dynasty of Sagroth was swallowed in the mortal terror which they
felt for their own safety. With shrieks and screams they turned and
bolted for the doorway. The weaker were knocked down and trampled upon.
They fought with fists and swords and daggers, in their mad efforts to
escape the crumbling building. They tore the clothing from one another,
as each sought to drag back his fellow, that he might gain further in
the race for the outer world.

And as the rabble fought, Nah-ee-lah and I stood before the throne of
Laythe, watching them, while below us the few remaining members of the
Jemadars guard stood viewing in silent contempt the terror of the
people.

Explosion after explosion followed one another in rapid succession. The
people had fled. The palace was empty, except for that handful of us
faithful ones who remained within the throne room.

Let us go, I said to Nah-ee-lah, and discover the origin of these
sounds, and the extent of the damage that is being done.

Come, she said, here is a short corridor to the inner terrace, where
we may look down upon the entire city of Laythe. And then, turning to
the commander of the guard she said: Proceed, please, to the palace
gates, and secure them against the return of our enemies, if they have
by this time all fled from the palace grounds.

The officer bowed, and followed by the few heroic survivors of the
Jemadars guard, he left by another corridor for the palace gates, while
I followed Nah-ee-lah up a stairway that led to the roof of the palace.

Coming out upon the upper terrace, we made our way quickly to the edge
overlooking the city and the crater. Below us a shrieking multitude ran
hither and thither from terrace to terrace, while, now here and now
there, terrific explosions occurred that shattered age-old structures
and carried debris high into the air. Many terraces showed great gaps
and tumbled ruins where other explosions had occurred and smoke and
flames were rising from a dozen portions of the city.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The scene takes place in the throne room of the Jemadars of Laythe, where Ko-tah the traitor is trying to take the throne from Nah-ee-lah. Julian, who is in love with Nah-ee-lah, fights and kills Ko-tah. However, the palace is then destroyed by a series of explosions, and the people flee in terror. Nah-ee-lah and Julian are the only ones left in the throne room, and they make their way to the roof to see the extent of the damage.