What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
II.


Meanwhile the Braithwaite carriage had reached the Grange, and, Miss
Lanes timid remonstrances having been overcome, it had been arranged
that she was to stay to dine there, and a boy was sent to the Vicarage
with a message to that effect. Harry, who had gone to Beckham on
horseback, and had sent his horse home and returned in the carriage to
be near the pretty governess, was suffering from a certain sense of
disappointment. Miss Lane proved even prettier on closer inspection
than she had given promise at a distance of being. As he sat beside her
in the carriage, he thought to himself that there was a beauty in the
rich yet delicate tints of a brunette complexion which no lily fairness
could vie with, and that the sweep of long, dark eyelashes over a
girls cheeks was the loveliest thing in the world. But he saw too
much of those eyelashes and not enough of the eyes they shaded--only
a swift, shy look as she answered any question of his, and then they
fell again or turned to his sister, who chattered on fast about the
ceremony they had just passed through, and the people who had been in
the church.

Harry himself was less talkative than usual; he could not think of
anything to say worthy the attention of this beautiful, brave girl
with the soft voice and steady, brown eyes. He became impatient at
last, snubbed his sister for being a magpie, and told her gruffly to
shut up, when she made an angry reply. He was glad when they reached
the Grange and the ladies went up-stairs; then he strolled into the
stable-yard and met his eldest brother George.

Who was that in the carriage?

Only little Miss Lane, the Mainwarings governess.

Eh? Oh, that was why you came home with the family-party! What is she
like?

Like? Oh, like--a governess! Stiff, prim--wont talk, or cant talk.
Awful mistake for her to have such a pretty face; its thrown away on a
girl like that.

Perhaps shell talk by and by. I think life at the Vicarage doesnt
encourage liveliness much. Where is she now?

Up-stairs with mamma and Lil. I say, shes my discovery; I brought her
here, and I wont have you monopolizing her. Ive seen you staring at
her in church, and wrinkling up your ugly face with annoyance because
she wouldnt look at you; but----

My dear boy, you shall have undisturbed possession of your prize,
as far as I am concerned. I dont look for my goddesses in the
Sunday-school. I admire your wisdom, though, all the same. She can do
you no possible harm, and will give you some excellent advice as a
reward for your attentions.

Hope shell give you a snub as a reward for yours! said Harry, with a
heartiness which went beyond brotherly pleasantry.

Both faces were darkening into frowns when the dinner-bell rang. When
they entered the dining-room, as they did together a few minutes
later, they found little Miss Lane completely engrossed by their
youngest brother, a great overgrown lad of fifteen or sixteen, whose
usual shyness with women had been overcome in a quarter of an hours
_tte--tte_ with the governess in the drawing-room. He had placed her
in the seat between his own and his fathers; but, before he had had
time to sit down, George dropped quietly into the chair he was holding.

Thats my place, said he roughly.

Mine for to-night, dear William, answered his elder brother coolly,
bending his handsome face close to that of the girl by his side. This
is a pleasure I have long wished for, Miss Lane, he said, in the
tender tones of the experienced flirt.

She looked at him shyly, laughed and blushed.

It is very unkind of you to laugh. Dont you believe me?

Not quite, I think.

Somebody has been poisoning your mind against me already, I see, he
said, with mock fierceness. You would not pay any attention to what
the juvenile William might say. It must have been Harry. It was Harry,
was it not?

Which is Harry?

Harry is the grumpy-looking one over there--the one who came back in
the carriage with you. He would give the world at this moment to pitch
me out of the window.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Harry and George, and to set up the conflict between them for the rest of the story. The author achieves this by having them argue with each other and by having George try to flirt with Miss Lane, who is clearly not interested in him.