What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
He stood for a long moment, staring into space, out where the Earth
swam somewhere in darkness around the star-like Sun.

Bitter? he asked himself. And answered: No, not bitter. Not exactly
bitter.

For you must understand, he said, still talking to the Earth, that a
man is human first and mutant after that. He is not a monster simply
because he is a mutant ... he is just a little different. He is human
in every way that you are human and it may be that he is human in more
ways than you are. For the human race as it stands today is the history
of long mutancy ... of men who were a little different, who thought a
little clearer, who felt a deeper compassion, who held an attribute
that was more human than the rest of their fellow men. And they passed
that clearer thinking and that deeper compassion on to sons and
daughters and the sons and daughters passed it on to some--not all--but
some of their sons and daughters. Thus the race grew up from savagery,
thus the human concept grew.

Perhaps, he thought, my father was a mutant, a mutant that no one
suspected. Or it may have been my mother. And neither of them would
have been suspected. For my father was a farmer and if his mutancy had
made the crops grow a little better through his better understanding
of the soil or through a deeper feeling for the art of growing things,
who would there be to know that he was a mutant? He would simply have
been a better farmer than his neighbors. And if at night, when he read
the well-worn books that stood on the shelf in the dining room, he
understood those books and the things they meant to say better than
most other men, who was there to know?

But I, he said, I was noticed. That is the crime of mutancy, to be
noticed. Like the Spartan boy whose crime of stealing a fox was no
crime at all, but whose cries when the fox ripped out his guts were a
crime indeed.

I rose too fast, he thought. I cut through too much red tape. I
understood too well. And in governmental office you can not rise too
fast nor cut red tape nor understand too well. You must be as mediocre
as your fellow office-holders. You cannot point to a blueprint of a
rocket motor and say, "There is the trouble," when men who are better
trained than you cannot see the trouble. And you cannot devise a system
of production that will turn out two rocket motors for the price of
one in half the time. For that is not only being too efficient; it's
downright blasphemy.

But most of all you cannot stand up in open meeting of government
policy makers and point out that mutancy is no crime in itself ... that
it only is a crime when it is wrongly used. Nor say that the world
would be better off if it used its mutants instead of being frightened
of them.

Of course, if one knew one was a mutant, one would never say a thing
like that. And a mutant, knowing himself a mutant, never would point
out a thing that was wrong with a rocket engine. For a mutant has to
keep his mouth shut, has to act the mediocre man and arrive at the ends
he wishes by complex indirection.

If I had only known, thought West. If I had only known in time. I could
have fooled them, as I hope many others even now are fooling them.

But now he knew it was too late, too late to turn back to the life that
he had rejected, to go back and accept the dead-end trap that had been
fashioned for him ... a trap that would catch and hold him, where he
would be safe. And where the human race would be safe from him.

West turned around and found the path that led up the rocky decline
toward the laboratory.

A hulking figure stepped out of the shadows and challenged him.

"Where do you think you're going?"

West halted. "Just got in," he said. "Looking for a friend of mine. By
the name of Nevin."

Inside the pocket of his suit, he felt Annabelle stirring restlessly.
Probably she was getting cold.

"Nevin?" asked the man, a note of alarm chilling his voice. "What do
you want of Nevin?"

"He's got a painting," West declared.

The man's voice turned silky and dangerous. "How much do you know about
Nevin and his painting?"

"Not much," said West. "That's why I'm here. Wanted to talk with him
about it."

Annabelle turned a somersault inside West's zippered pocket. The man's
eyes caught the movement.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the conflict between West and the man who is blocking his path. West is trying to reach Nevin, who has a painting, and the man is trying to stop him.