Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
IV

SAIDEE ISAACS


Chester Fay felt the grip of a London night as he dodged in and out of
the neatly boxed trees that lined the street upon which was the quiet
house of the Two Lions.

He did not glance back. He knew that only amateurs did things like that.
The five years in Dartmoor had taught him that liberty was a priceless
thing. There were guards and constables on that dark street. Some turned
and watched his fleeting form with suspicion. Any moment one might call
a halt. Every second, he expected to hear a shout from MacKeenon.

The high tower of Westminster loomed over the housetops. Beyond this
tower was the House of Parliament. At its base ran the sullen flood of
the Thames. Over the river a bridge arched, strangely pale in the night
light.

Gripping his palms, and somewhat surprised to find the overcoat over his
arm, he turned at the Embankment and there swept the street with the
corner of his eye. No man followed him. A single constable, half
curious, had stepped out on the asphalt. He stood like a post, his hands
on his bent knees.

Adieu, sir, Fay laughed lightly. Adieu, you there, and you Keenon and
you, Richard. You both would have let me rot in that hell on earth if
you hadnt needed me. From now on, Im a free agent! And the world is
wide.

Breathing the night air, Fay hurried toward the east. His shoulders were
squared and his heels and toes clicked over the hard stone without
visible effort.

He walked in the same swinging gait until he reached the place where the
black shadow of Cleos Needle lifted against the leaden vault of the
London sky.

Here he turned and leaned over the Embankments rail, The tide flowed
slowly toward the city and the sea. Bridges arched from shore to shore.
Great caravansaries loomed with their staring windows arranged in
shelf-like tiers. Beyond them sounded the roar of midnight traffic.

A sudden loneliness came over him. He was without home or friends. The
years at Dartmoor had effaced many memories. They left one which was
overpowering. How little was human effort. There had been a time when
flash thieves with international reputations had pointed him out at the
St. James and Alhambra Lounge, as the king of cracksmen. The time was
gone. The old crew had either been caught or had died overseas on the
red fields of Flanders. Few served or continued their profession.

Saidee Isaacs loomed before him. He searched the Thames and found her
face there. He closed his eyes and marked her flashing presence. He saw
her dark hair, her lashes, her olive cheeks and Madonna smile. That same
smile could change between the time of seconds to hate and rage. Dutch
Gus, who should have known, had called her the Mona Lisa of the
underworld.

Fay wondered where she was living, as he tore his glance away from the
river and turned with his back to the wall. He had last seen her on that
eventful day when a cage had shot up in the court of Assizes, a judge
had pronounced the sentence, and the cage, with him in it, had dropped
down to the waiting van which had started for the prison with both
horses on a gallop.

Her mouth had formed one word: Courage!

He recalled all this as he struck the wall with his right heel. There
was little enough honor in the best of thieves. The stool-pigeons had
made squealing a profitable vocation. Men who traveled with golf-bags
filled with highly tempered tools of the safe-breaking profession, and
who sported small black motor cars of marvelous speed, were proper
marks. The pigeons or carelessness or something had dragged him down.
Fay often wondered, in those Dartmoor years, if Saidee Isaacs had a hand
in his conviction.

MacKeenon would not give him Saidees address. Sir Richard had told him
to forget her. He decided, with a sudden start as Big Ben struck the
quarters, that the day that had been ushered in would be devoted to
finding Saidee Isaacs. She had some things to answer forchief of which
was her reason for not writing to Dartmoor.

He straightened, hung the coat over his arm, fished out a cigarette from
the case, and struck a match upon the damp stone and hurried away from
the river.

Suddenly, and specter-like, a form blocked his way. It was an American
soldier clad in a well-fitting olive-drab uniform, upon the sleeves of
which was a wound-stripe.


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

-Chester Fay is a recently freed convict, walking the streets of London at night
-He's on the run from the law, and recalls his time in Dartmoor prison
-He thinks about Saidee Isaacs, a woman he knew before he was incarcerated
-He decides to find her, and is stopped by an American soldier