Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
VI.

_MINER'S MARRIAGE._

It was the cool season in Sydney.  In other words, it was winter just
commencing; so, what with balmy air and beauty everywhere around, no
wonder Archie soon got well.  He had the kindest treatment too, and
he had youth and hope.

He could now write home to his parents and Elsie a long, cheerful
letter without any twinge of conscience.  He was going to begin work
soon in downright earnest, and get straight away from city life, and
all its allurements; he wondered, he said, it had not occurred to him
to do this before, only it was not too late to mend even yet.  He
hated city life now quite as much as he had previously loved it, and
been enamoured of it.

It never rains but it pours, and on the very day after he posted his
packet to Burley he received a registered letter from his uncle.  It
contained a bill of exchange for fifty pounds.  Archie blushed
scarlet when he saw it.

Now had this letter and its contents been from his father, knowing
all he did of the straits at home, he would have sent the money back.
But his uncle evidently knew whom he had to deal with; for he assured
Archie in his letter that it was a loan, not a gift.  He might want
it he said, and he really would be obliging him by accepting it.
He--Uncle Ramsay--knew what the world was, and so on and so forth,
and the letter ended by requesting Archie to say nothing about it to
his parents at present.

"Dear old boy," said Archie half aloud, and tears of gratitude sprang
to his eyes.  "How thoughtful and kind!  Well, it'll be a loan, and
I'll pray every night that God may spare him till I get home to shake
his honest brown paw, and thrust the fifty pounds back into it.  No,
it would be really unkind to refuse it."

He went straight away--walking on feathers--to Bob's hotel.  He found
him and Harry sitting out on the balcony drinking sherbet.  He took a
seat beside them.

"I'm in clover, boys," he cried exultingly, as he handed the cash to
Bob to look at.

"So you are," said Bob, reading the figures.  "Well, this is what my
old mother would call a God-send.  I always said your Uncle Ramsay
was as good as they make 'em."

"It looks a lot of money to me at present," said Archie.  "I'll have
all that to begin life with; for I have still a few pounds left to
pay my landlady, and to buy a blanket or two."

"Well, as to what you'll buy, Archie," said Bob Cooper, "if you don't
mind leaving that to us, we will manage all, cheaper and better than
you could; for we're old on the job."

"Oh!  I will with pleasure, only----"

"I know all about that.  You'll settle up.  Well, we're all going to
be settlers.  Eh?  See the joke?"

"Bob doesn't often say funny things," said Harry; "so it must be a
fine thing to be going to get married."

"Ay, lad, and I'm going to do it properly.  Worst of it is, Archie, I
don't know anybody to invite.  Oh, we must have a dinner!  Bother
breakfasts, and hang honeymoons.  No, no; a run round Sydney will
suit Sarah better than a year o' honeymooning nonsense.  Then we'll
all go off in the boat to Brisbane.  That'll be a honeymoon and a
half in itself.  Hurrah!  Won't we all be so happy!  I feel sure
Sarah's a jewel."

"How long did you know her, Bob, before you asked her the momentous
question?"

"Asked her _what_?"

"To marry you."

"Oh, only a week!  La! that's long enough.  I could see she was true
blue, and as soft as rain.  Bless her heart!  I say, Archie, who'll
we ask?"

"Well, I know a few good fellows----"

"Right.  Let us have them.  What's their names?"

Out came Bob's notebook, and down went a dozen names.

"That'll be ample," said Archie.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Archie has just recovered from an illness and is feeling better than ever. He is excited to start work and begin earning money again. His uncle sends him a bill of exchange for fifty pounds, which Archie accepts as a loan. He goes to tell his friends Bob and Harry about it and they are all excited for him. They decide to have a dinner to celebrate and invite a few friends.