What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"It's the schoolmaster," said Rob.

But neither heeded him, and without a word the Major took him by the
shoulders and pushed him out into the street, securely locking the
door behind him.  With the strangeness of it all fresh upon him Rob
clutched his claymore and began to make his way homewards.  He
wondered where he had seen the great man in Fraser's tavern before,
or whether he had dreamed of him.  The memory of him though baffling,
was curiously vivid in its way.

Rob lodged with his aunt, his mother's sister, and was not ashamed to
admit that he had a wholesome terror for Miss Margaret Macpherson.
What would she say to his plans?  What, indeed?

Miss Macpherson was very tall and exceedingly gaunt.  Her countenance
was as bleak as a wind-swept hillside, and there was a stony glare in
her grey eyes which seemed to turn the very atmosphere to frost.  Her
figure was all points and angles--jutting out where her shoulders
rose towards her neck, and seeming to extend indefinitely into her
arms.  Rob knew those long, sinewy arms with their thin, gnarled
hands ever ready to swoop.  Miss Macpherson's customary attitude was
like that of a great bird of prey, mightily beaked and clawed,
pouncing swiftly, and rising again to sit and watch upon a crag.

She was sitting before the fire as he entered, and when she saw the
sword in his hand there came over her grim countenance a quick
change--a swift tightening, as though she had received a shock but
would not own to it.

"Aunt Margaret," said Rob, with a rush to get it over, "I'm marching
with Prince Charlie's men to-morrow."

She made as though to rise, then sat where she was, only her hands
trembled as she held them to the fire.

"So schooling's over," she said, quietly, "and now we're off to the
wars, are we?  A fine spectacle that will be for your father's son.
It's the gallows now, is it, along with a rag-tag and a bonny Prince?
Ye'll want a polish to this sword, I'm thinking, and some bannocks
for your travels.  Oh, I'll cook ye bannocks, my mannie--fine, hot
bannocks."

She watched him narrowly, all the time, wishing to frighten him, and
finding that he remained unshaken she shrugged her shoulders and set
about laying the table, her long, thin arms clutching the dishes.
Rob noted with dejected eyes, that she was setting the things for one.

"How old are ye?" she asked at last, her back still turned.

"Sixteen past," he answered, slowly.

"Aye," said she, "I suppose ye are."

She stared at him then with a queer look in her face--as though she
would have beaten him had she been able.  Then, placing another
platter upon the table, she jerked her head at him to sit beside her.

"Rob," she said, after a long silence, "to me you have always been
undergrown for your years.  It seems but yesterday since ye came."

"It was eight years ago," he answered, still upon his guard.

"So long?" said she, and took up her knife, but eating nothing.

The meal proceeded in utter silence.  Rob would have given a world to
be away.  What was in his aunt's mind he did not know, he could not
guess.  Her face expressed nothing, only her eyes stared at him
unblinkingly, like the unfathomable eyes of an eagle.

"Rob," said she, at last, "when do you get your marching orders?"

"To-morrow, Aunt Margaret," he replied.  "You must not be grieved at
my going; I cannot bide here when my people are out.  Of course, we
may not leave Inverness for a while."

"Yon old fox, Lovat, is safe at home," she retorted.  "When the chief
bides it is not good for the clansmen to stir."

"But the Master is out," he hastened to add, referring to Lord
Lovat's son, who was in command of the clan Fraser.

"It is the sly pussie sits on the top of the wall.  Well, well," she
concluded, "what's done's done, and so off to bed wi' ye, and get
your sleep."

Rob, concealing his delight at his aunt's apparent complacency, rose
to his feet, and wishing her a very good night--for which she thanked
him grimly--betook himself to the adjoining room, and flinging
himself down on his bed was soon fast asleep.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the relationship between Rob and his aunt, Miss Macpherson. The author also uses the scene to establish the setting and to provide some background information on the characters.