Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
It became painfully evident soon after that this was the correct
solution, for, going backwards some little way.  Archie found a
child's shoe--one of a crimson pair that Bob had bought in Brisbane
for his little Diana.

"God help her, poor darling!" said Archie reverently, as he placed
the little shoe in his breast pocket.  When he returned he held it up
for a moment before the men, and the scowl of anger that crossed
their faces, and the firmer clutch they took of their weapons, showed
it would indeed be bad for the blacks when they met these rough
pioneers face to face.

At sunset supper was partaken of, and camp once more formed, though
no fire was lit, cold though it might be before morning.

The men were tired, and were sound asleep almost as soon as they lay
down; but Craig, with the brothers, climbed the ridge of the hill to
look about them soon after it grew dark.

The camp rested at the entrance of a wild gully, a view of which
could be had, darkling away towards the east, from the hill on which
the three friends now found themselves.

Presently Rupert spoke.

"Archie," he said, "in this land of contrarieties does the moon
sometimes rise in the south?"

"Not quite," replied Archie.

"Look, then.  What is that reflection over yonder?"  Craig and Archie
both caught sight of it at the same time.

"By Saint George and merry England!" Craig cried exultingly, "that is
the camp of the blacks.  Now to find Diana's other shoe, and the dear
child herself wearing it.  Now for revenge!"

"Nay," said Rupert, "call it justice, Craig."

"What you will; but let us hurry down."

They stayed but for a moment more to take their bearings.  The fire
gleams pointed to a spot to the south-east, on high ground, and right
above the gully, and they had a background of trees, not the sky.  It
was evident then that the enemy was encamped in a little clearing on
a forest table-land; and if they meant to save the child's life--if
indeed she was not already dead--the greatest caution would be
necessary.

They speedily descended, and a consultation being held, it was
resolved to commence operations as soon as the moon should rise; but
meanwhile to creep in the darkness as near to the camp as possible.

But first Jacoby was sent out to reconnoitre.  No cat, no flying
squirrel could glide more noiselessly through an Australian forest
than this faithful fellow.  Still he seemed an unconsciously long
time gone.  Just as Craig and Archie were getting seriously uneasy
the tinkle, tinkle of the bell-bird was heard.  This was the signal
agreed upon, and presently after, Jacoby himself came silently into
their midst.

"The child?" was Archie's first question.

"Bal mumhill piccaninny, belong a you.  Pidney you."

"The child is safe," said Craig, after asking a few more questions of
this Scotch Myell black.

"Safe? and they are holding a corroboree and drinking.  There is
little time to lose.  They may sacrifice the infant at any time."

Craig struck a light as he spoke, and every man examined his arms.

"The moon will rise in an hour.  Let us go on.  Silent as death, men!
Do not overturn a stone or break a twig, or the poor baby's life will
be sacrificed in a moment."

They now advanced slowly and cautiously, guided by Jacoby, and at
length lay down almost within pistol-shot of the place where the
horrid corroboree was going on.

Considering the noise--the shrieking, the clashing of arms, the rude
chanting of songs, and awful din, of the dancers and actors in this
ugly drama--to maintain silence might have seemed unnecessary; but
these blacks have ears like wolves, and, in a lull of even half a
second, would be sharp to hear the faintest unusual noise.

Craig and Archie, however, crept on till they came within sight of
the ceremonies.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a sense of foreboding and danger. The point of view is from the perspective of the three friends, and the tone is one of urgency and excitement.