Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Steady--steady, now," said the captain, stepping down and laying a
hand on Felton's shoulder. "You're not drugged. You're a little off
your balance, and the drink was too heavy. Every drunken man sees
double. Isn't that so?"

This seemed logical, and Felton stammered assent. He sat down on the
projecting bilge of a torpedo, trying to recover his mental balance.
It was hard work, but finally he adjusted himself to the captain's
point of view. It was a terrible jump--three hundred feet. He had
escaped death by a miracle. Men had gone insane under less pressure,
and he had taken two drinks of a powerful stimulant. He would be all
right, in time--after a little sleep. Thus reconciled, he took note
of his surroundings. The engine was stopped, the men forward had just
finished reloading the torpedo tube, and the captain was peering into
the periscope--the non-magnifying telescope which gives a view of the
seascape.

"Come up here," he said, "and take a look." Felton climbed to the small
platform on which the captain stood. Just before him was the eyepiece
of the periscope, and, at a sign from the captain, he peeped into it.
Pictured on the lens was the dismantled wreck of the _Argyll_, down by
the head, a helpless, sinking wreck.

"She's floating on five compartments," said the captain. "I just filled
the sixth, and I think we'll fill two at once this time. By the way,
what did you fellows butt in for? It was my fight. I hit her last
night, and blew up the forward magazine; then I lost her in the dark."

"But say," answered Felton, "which side are you on in this mix? You
blew up the turret, you say, and the airship destroyed her. But the
crew of that airship displayed mortal fear of you, and jumped overboard
at sight of you."

"Exactly. They would have gone off at a tangent if they hadn't. It's
better to die on your planet than to become a comet for all eternity."

"Like the airship. I see. But how did you do it, if I may ask?"

"I reversed his polarity, that's all. See that? Look, and listen."

The captain turned a lever, and a dynamo nearby began to revolve, while
an arc lamp suspended from above glowed, glistened, and sparkled,
as the current passed through the carbons. Soon it began a curious,
musical buzzing, and the captain shut it off.

"Merely an alternating current through an arc," he explained. "But the
electric impulses sent out by that singing arc are of a wave length and
frequency produced by no other means. They are just right to turn his
two magnetic poles into one, and--away he goes."

"I don't understand. Yes, I understand that you might reverse his
polarity, or combine it, as you say, by some wireless method. But,
which side are you on?"

"The side of the Lord."

"Look here, captain," said Felton, angrily. "That is the answer your
double gave me when I asked him the same question last night. It
means nothing. I am either a prisoner of war, or a guest entitled to
consideration. Why do you treat me like a fool?"

"Because you are a fool. You believe in the invulnerability of the
battleship. Well, there is one of the best. Look at her."

"I see. Destroyed, but not by you; by an enemy of yours. One who feared
you."

"Yes, as mediocrity fears intelligence, as the child fears the dark,
the savage the gun of the civilized soldier--humanity as a whole the
unseen, the unexpected, the invisible. The airship is potential, but
not final--she can be seen."

"And shot," said Felton, doggedly.

"Did that battleship hit your airship? You know that she could not. The
airship's limitations are contained in her visibility. She cannot be
hit by shot or shell, but she can be seen, and projected into space."

"Granted, but suppose she dropped a bomb on to your back before you saw
her?"

"She could not, except in the dark; then she would have to strike a
knife edge, and it would be an accident--one chance in millions. We are
constructed like a razor-back hog, to deflect falling bombs."

"But you cannot deflect horizontal torpedoes," said Felton, looking up
at the dome of the submarine. It looked curiously like the dome-shaped
roof of the airship. "I know well," he went on, talking as was his wont
among his fellow officers, "that if I could see your periscope tube
with a telescope, I could hit you with one of my torpedoes."


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The captain of a submarine explains to Felton how he destroyed the battleship _Argyll_ by reversing its polarity. He tells Felton that he is on the side of the Lord, and that Felton is a fool for believing in the invulnerability of the battleship.