What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XXX


THE BLIZZARD

AGAIN spring bloomed into summer and summer yellowed into autumn. A
mellow, golden glow lay over the valleys, and in the foothills purple
asters and pink thistles lent patches of colour to a brown land.

During the daytime Ruth was busy with business details of the round-up,
of the fall beef shipment, of planting and of harvesting. The lettuce
crop had been very successful and Jennings had long ago made the _amende
honorable_ for his doubts. She had experimented with pinto beans, and
these were no sooner cut and stacked than the men were hard at it
putting in winter wheat. As soon as dusk fell she devoted herself to the
baby until he went to sleep for the night. In the evening she took up
the accounts of the ranch, wrote to Rowan, held a conference with
Jennings, or did a little desultory reading. The housekeeping she left
almost entirely in the competent hands of Mrs. Stovall.

In addition to the business of the Circle Diamond and superintending the
care of a year-old baby, Ruth had other claims upon her time that she
could not ignore. One of these was her promise to Sam Yerby to look
after Missie and the boy. It was her custom to have them down for a day
every other month and to visit the Yerby place between times.

On a day in mid-November, with Rowan, junior, beside her, Ruth set out
in the car for the little mountain ranch. It was a cool crisp morning.
The sting of frost was in the air, and the indigo mountains were ribbed
with white in the snow-filled gulches. To the nostrils came the tang of
sage and later of pine.

After she had driven from the foothills into the caon, Ruth stopped to
wrap an extra blanket around the baby, for the sun was painting only the
upper walls as yet, and down by the creek there was an inch-thick ice at
the edges. The early fall snows were melting on the sunny slopes above,
and Hill Creek was pouring down in a flood. The road crossed the creek
twice, but after she was on it Ruth discovered that the second bridge
was very shaky. The car got over safely, but she decided to take the
high-line road home, even though it was a few miles longer.

Robert E. Lee Yerby came running down to the gate to meet them.

Oh, Auntie Rufe! he shouted. Mummas peelin a chicken for dinner.

Ruth caught the youngster up and hugged him. He was an attractive little
chap, with the bluest of eyes and the most ingenuous of smiles.

I like you, Auntie Rufe. You always smell like pink woses, he confided
with the frankness of extreme youth.

His rs were all ws, but the young woman understood him. She gave him
another hug in payment for the compliment.

Ive brought budda to play with you, Bobbie. Budda was the nearest
Robert could come to the word brother at the time Rowan was born, and
the word had stuck with him, as is the way with children. Now let me
go. I must get out and shut the gate.

No, it dont hurt if its open. Mumma said so, tos everyfings in the
pasture.

As she went into the house with Missie, stripping the driving gauntlets
from her hands, Ruth noticed that clouds were banking in the sky over
the summit of the range. It looked like snow.

The days she spent with Ruth were red-letter ones for Mrs. Yerby. Missie
was a simple mountain girl, born and bred in the Wyoming hills. What
little schooling she had had was of the country-district kind. It did
not go far, and was rather sketchy even to the point she had gone. But
this radiant, vital girl from the cities, so fine and beautiful, and yet
so generous of her friendship, so competent and strong and self-reliant,
but so essentially feminineMissie accepted what she offered with a
devotion that came near worship. She did not understand how anybody
could help loving Ruth McCoy. To be elected one of her friends was a
rare privilege. Perhaps this unquestioning approval of all she was and
did, together with Mrs. Yerbys need of her, did more to win Ruth than
any effort the other woman could have made. She was plentifully endowed
with human failings, and flattery of this sort was no doubt incense to
her self-esteem.

The women chatted and worked while the youngsters played on the floor.
Just before dinner a cow-puncher from the Triangle Dot rode up and
trailed into the house with spurs a-jingle. He had come to tell Mrs.
Yerby about one of her yearlings he had rescued from a swamp and was
keeping in the corral for a day or two. His nostrils sniffed the dinner
in the kitchen, and it was not hard to persuade him to stay and eat.

Wha a is? demanded Robert E. Lee Yerby, pointing to the rowel on the
high heel of the rider.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the characters. The author achieves this by describing the landscape and the weather, and by introducing Robert E. Lee Yerby.