Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
West stayed silent. There was no use in playing innocent with Belden,
for Belden had guessed too close to the truth.

Belden lowered his voice. "You have the same hunch as I have. You
figure Darling's hormone is worth more than all this mummery going on
downstairs. And you're here to find it. I told Nevin that Darling's
hormone was the thing for us to find instead of messing around outside,
but he didn't think so. After we took Darling to the moon, Nevin
smashed the ship's controls. He was afraid I might get away, you see.
He didn't trust me and he couldn't afford to let me get away."

"I'll trade with you," West told him quietly.

"We'll go to the moon in your ship and see Darling," said Belden.
"We'll beat it out of him."

West grinned wryly. "Darling's dead," he said.

"Did you search the hut?" asked Belden.

"Of course not. Why should I have searched it?"

"It's there, then," said Belden, grimly. "Hidden in the hut somewhere.
I've turned this place upside down and I'm sure it isn't here. Neither
the formula nor the hormones themselves. Not unless Darling was
trickier than I thought he was."

"You know what this hormone is," said West smoothly, trying to make it
sound as if he himself might know it.

"No," said Belden shortly. "Darling didn't trust us. He was angry at
what Nevin was trying to do. And once he made a crack that the man who
had it could rule the Solar System. Darling wasn't kidding, West. He
knew more about hormones than all the rest of us put together."

"Seems to me," West said drily, "that you would have wanted to keep a
man like that here. You certainly could have used him."

"Nevin again," Belden told him. "Darling wouldn't go along with the
program that Nevin planned. Even threatened to expose him if he ever
had the chance. Nevin wanted to kill him, but Cartwright thought up a
joke ... he's jovial, Cartwright is."

"I've noticed that," said West.

"Cartwright thought up the exile business," Belden said. "Offered
Darling any one thing he wished to take along. One thing, you
understand. Just one thing. That's where the joke came in. Cartwright
expected Darling to go through agonies trying to make up his mind. But
there wasn't a moment's hesitation. Darling took the whisky."

"He drank himself to death," said West.

"Darling wasn't a drinking man," Belden told him, sharply.

"It was suicide," said West. "Darling took you fellows down the line,
neatly, all the way. He was away ahead of you."

A soft sound like the brushing of a bird's wing swung West around.

Rosie was coming through the door, her wings half-raised, exposing
the hideousness of the furry, splotched body beneath the furry,
death's-head face.

"No!" screamed Belden. "No! I wasn't going to do anything. I wasn't--"

He backed away, arms outthrust to ward off the thing that walked toward
him, mouth still working, but no sound coming out.

Rosie brushed West to one side with a flip of a furry wing and then
the wings spread wider and shielded Belden from West's view. The wings
clapped shut and from behind them came the muffled scream of the man.
Then nothing; silence.

West's hand dropped to the holster and his gun came sliding out.
His thumb slammed down the activator and the gun purred like a
well-contented cat.

The ermine of Rosie's wings turned black and she crumpled to the floor.
A sickening odor filled the room.

"Belden!" cried West. He leaped forward, kicked the charred Rosie to
one side. Belden lay on the floor and West turned away retching.

For a moment West stood in indecision, then swiftly he knew what he
must do.

Showdown. He had hoped that it could be put off a little longer, until
he knew a little more, but the incident of Belden and Rosie had settled
it. There was nothing else to do.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

West is confronted by Belden, who has guessed that West is looking for Darling's hormone. Belden offers to trade with West, but West tells him that Darling is dead. Belden says that the hormone must be hidden in the hut, and West offers to search it. As they search, Rosie comes in and Belden screams, before being silenced by her. West shoots her and she falls to the floor.