What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The following day, my father and I returned to Ionis. Our request was
submitted to M. dAillane, who began by embracing me, after which he
gave his hand to my father and said, with an air of thoroughly chivalric
frankness:

Yes, _and thank you_!

I threw myself again into his arms and he added:

Wait, however, until my daughter consents, for above all I desire her
happiness. As to myself, I give her to you without knowing whether she
will be rich enough for you; for if she should be, I have decided that
you are noble enough for her. You are incurring every risk. _Eh bien,
mordieu!_ I wish to do as much and not fall behind the example you set
me. You have no ambition for money, and for my part I have no prejudices
in favor of nobility. So we both agree. I have your word and you have
mine. Only I insist upon my daughter deciding the matter. And my dear M.
Nivires, you must allow your son to pay his own addresses, for his love
is so recent, that it depends upon him to prove its sincerity. As to his
character and his talents, with those we are familiar, and there can be
no objections on that score.

I was thus allowed to become a constant visitor at the chteau dIonis,
and this was, as regards the past, the happiest time of my life. I
loved, under the ordinary conditions of life, a being above the ordinary
region of life, an angel of goodness, of sweetness, of intelligence and
of ideal beauty.

She did not leave me without hope and freely expressed her esteem and
sympathy for me, but when I spoke of love, she seemed doubtful.

Do not deceive yourself, said she, have you never loved, before you
met me, and more than you loved me, a certain lady whose name my brother
has refused to tell me?

One day she said to me:

Do you not wear on your finger, a certain ring that you regard as a
talisman, and if I were to ask you to throw it into the fountain, would
you obey me?

Certainly not, I exclaimed, I will never part with it, for it was you
who gave it to me.

I, what do you mean by that?

Yes, it was you, do not try to conceal it any longer. It was you who
enacted the role of the green lady to please Madame dIonis, who wished
through you to pronounce her own ruin, and who thought she had found in
me the person worthy of belief, whose testimony her husband required.
It was you who, yielding to her idea, appeared before me in fantastical
guise, and prescribed my duty in conformity with your delicacy and pride
of soul.

Well, yes, it was I! she said. It was I who came near destroying your
reason, and who repented bitterly on learning too late, how much you had
suffered from this romantic adventure. Once before they had tried you in
a ghost scene, with which I had nothing to do. When they saw how brave
you were, more courageous than the abb Lamyre, upon whom Caroline had
played a similar trick, to amuse herself, they thought they could treat
you to an apparition, in which there would be nothing very terrifying. I
happened to be here, secretly, as the dowager dIonis would not
willingly have suffered my presence. Caroline, struck with my
resemblance to the nymph of the fountain, conceived the idea of
arranging my hair and dressing me in a similar style so that I should
deliver my oracle in due form. Although the dictum was not such as she
desired, it was nevertheless one that you have obeyed religiously, in
not forgetting the care of our honor for a single moment. I left the
next morning, and they kept me in ignorance of the fact that you had
been seriously ill here, owing to this apparition. After your quarrel
with Bernard, I was at Angers, and it was I who sent you the ring that I
caused you to find in your room. This episode was due to Madame dIonis,
who had two very old rings exactly alike, and who had previously
arranged everything to carry out the romance. It was she who took it
away from you during your fever, fearing that you should be too much
excited by this appearance of reality, and preferring that you should
think it all a dream.

And I never thought so, never! But how did it happen that you regained
possession of this ring that was not your own?

Caroline had given it to me, said she, blushing, because I thought it
pretty.

Then she hastened to add:

When Bernard had won your confidence, I learned at last by what sad
experiences and virtuous deeds you deserved to again behold the green
lady. I then resolved to be your sister and your friend, in order to
repair by the devotion of a life-time, an act of imprudence into which I
had allowed myself to be drawn, and thus to compensate for the trouble I
had caused you. I never expected to please you as much by daylight, as
by the light of the moon. Well, since such is the case, know that you
have not been the only unhappy one, and that


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to reveal the backstory of the relationship between the two main characters. The author achieves this by having one of the characters recount how they met and fell in love with each other.