Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
XXXII


FATHER MARSTON PROPHESIES

Sulky, morose, sluggish as a saurian, Dutch lay in his cell and waited
for deliverance. The weeks passed. The Dodsons sent him word to say
nothing, that when the time came they would set him free.

He suspected them as he suspected everybody. If they failed him he meant
to betray them. But the time had not come for that yet.

As he grew weary of confinement his restlessness found vent in a plan of
escape. From his boot he worked the tin piece used as a stiffener for
the leg. With this as a tool and a piece of a broken bed slat as
material he began to shape a wooden pistol. He worked only when he knew
he would be alone. The shavings that came in thin slivers from the pine
he hid in the mattress upon which he slept. When the weapon was finished
he rubbed it with lamp black till it took in a measure the colour of
steel.

It was in the mans temperament to be patient as an Apache when he found
it to his advantage. He waited for his chance and found it when the
jailer made his round one evening to see that all was secure.

The moonlight was shining through the barred window on the bed in
checkered squares of light. Dutch was pacing up and down his cell when
the guard appeared. He moved forward to the door.

Gimme a chew, Hank, he said ingratiatingly.

The killer was a sullen and vindictive prisoner. The jailer had tried to
placate him, for now that Scot McClintock was getting better it would be
only a question of time till Dutch would again be loose on the world.

Sure, Sam.

The jailer dived into his right hip pocket, found a plug of tobacco, and
handed it through the grating to his prisoner.

Dutch caught the mans wrist and twisted it down against the iron bar of
the lattice. Simultaneously a pistol barrel gleamed through the opening.

Gimme yore six-shooter. . . . Now unlock the door. Let out a squawk an
Ill pump lead into you.

The jailer obeyed orders. Dutch hustled him into the cell, then tied and
gagged him. He took the keys, went downstairs, unlocked the outer door,
and walked into the night a free man.

He stood for a moment at the door, hesitating. Which way should he go?
The first thing was to get a horse at some stable. That would be easy
enough. All he had to do was to go in and ask for it. But should he go
back to Piodie, try Virginia City, or cut across the Sierras to
California and say good-bye to Nevada?

Before he had made up his mind which road to take his thoughts were
deflected into another channel. A young woman passed on the other side
of the street. He recognized her immediately. The light, resilient step,
the gallant poise of the slender body identified their owner as Victoria
Lowell. He was sure of it even before the moonlight fell full upon her
profile.

His eyes lit with a cunning tigerish malice. Softly he padded down the
street after her. There was in his mind no clear idea of what he meant
to do. But he was a born bully. She was alone. He could torment her to
his hearts content.

He moved faster, came abreast of her after she had turned into a dark
side street. His step kept pace with hers. She looked up to see who her
companion was.

A gasp of surprise broke from her throat.

His grin was a leer, hideous and menacing. How are you, mdear? Didnt
expect to meet up with old Sam, did you? But tickledplumb tickled to
death to see him.

Involuntarily she quickened her step. His arm shot out and his great
hand closed on her wrist. A shriek welled up inside her, but she
smothered it unvoiced. The shudder that ran through her body she could
not control.

He purred on: Came to meet old Sam soon as he got out. Had to see him
right away, didnt you? Couldnt wait a minute.

With a twist of her forearm she tried to break away. His rough fingers
crushed deeper into her soft flesh.

You in a hurry, sweetheart? he went on, and his heavy body shook with
unholy mirth. Afraid of old Sams winnin ways? Dont like to trust
yore feelins with them, I reckon.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

- Dutch: sullen, vindictive prisoner, trying to escape
- Hank: the jailer
- Sam: Dutch's alias
- Scot McClintock: another prisoner
- Victoria Lowell: young woman Dutch follows