Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Abruptly Ruth turned to McCoy. I want you to ride, she told him in a
low voice.

The cattleman hesitated. He did not want to ride. Without saying so in
words, he had let the other competitors understand that he did not mean
to defend his title. There had been a good deal of pressure to induce
him to drag a saddle into the arena but so far he had resisted it.

He turned to decline, but the words died on his lips. The eyes of the
girl were stormy; her cheeks flushed. It was plain that for some reason
she had set her heart on his winning. Why? His pulses crashed with the
swift, tumultuous beating of the red blood in him. Rowan McCoy was not a
vain man. It was hard for him to accept the conclusion for which his
whole soul longed. But what other reason could there be for her
insistence?

During the past few weeks he had been with Ruth Trovillion a great deal.
He had ridden with her, climbed Old Baldy by her side, eaten picnic
lunches as her companion far up in flower-strewn mountain parks. He had
taught her to shoot, to fish, to make camp. They had been gay and
wholesome comrades for long summer days. The new and secret thing that
had come into his life he had hidden from her as if it had been a sin.
The desire of his heart was impossible, he had always told himself. How
could it be otherwise? This fine, spirited young creature, upon whom was
stamped so ineradicably the look of the thoroughbred, would go back to
her own kind when the time came. Meanwhile, let him make the best of his
little day of sunshine.

I told the boys I wasnt expecting to ride, he parried. It has been
rather understood that I wouldnt.

But if I ask you? she demanded.

There was no resisting that low, imperious appeal.

He looked straight into her eyes. If you ask it, Ill ride.

I do ask it.

He rose. Its your say-so, little partner. Ill let the committee
know.

The eyes of the girl followed him, a brown, sun-baked man, quiet and
strong and resolute. Her glance questioned shyly what manner of man this
was, after all, who had imposed himself so greatly upon her thoughts. He
was genuine. So much she knew. He did not need the gay trappings of
Larry Silcott to brand him a rider of the hills, foursquare to every
wind that blew. Behind the curtain of his reticence she had divined some
vague hint of a woman in his life. Now a queer little thrill of
jealousy, savage and primeval, claimed her for the first time. She knew
her own power over Rowan McCoy. It hurt her to feel that another girl
had once possessed it, too.

A cow-puncher from Laramie, in yellow wool chaps and a shirt of
robins-egg blue, took the stage after Silcott. He drew a roan with a
red-hot devil of malice in its eye. The bronco hunched itself over to
the fence in a series of jarring bucks, and jammed the leg of the rider
against a post. The Laramie youth, beside himself with pain, caught at
the saddle horn to save his seat. The nearest judge fired a revolver to
tell him he was out of the running. He had touched leather.

His successor took the dust ignominiously in a clean tumble. He got up,
looked ruefully at the bronco that had unseated him, and went his
bowlegged way back to meet the derisive condolences of forty grinning
punchers.

Too bad the judges didnt have the ground plowed up for you, Shorty. It
would a been a heap softer, murmured one.

If Id only remembered to ride on my spurs like you done, Wade, I
neednt have fallen at all, came back Shorty with genial malice at his
tormentor.

Whereat the laugh was on Wade, who had been detected earlier in the day
digging his spurs into the cinch to help him stick to the saddle.

Rowan McCoy on Tenderfoot, announced the leather-lunged megaphone man.

A wave of interest swept through the grand stand. Everybody had wanted
to see the champion ride. Now they were going to get the chance. The
announcement caused a stir even among the hard-bitten riders at the
entrance to the corral. For McCoy was not only a famous bronco buster;
he was a man whose personality had won him many friends and some
enemies.

The owner of the Circle Diamond rode like a centaur. He tried no tricks,
no fancy business to win the applause of the spectators. But he held his
seat with such ease and mastery that his long, lithe body might have
been a part of the horse. His riding was characteristic of himstraight
and strong and genuine.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is straightforward and simple. There is no fancy language or poetic descriptions. Instead, the focus is on the action and the dialogue between the characters. This gives the scene a realistic feel, as if we are watching the events unfold before us.