Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
As the long strides of the horse carried him down the arroyo, the boys
brain functioned to meet the emergency. He might turn to the right,
circle the lake, make for Alkali Flat, and from there across the hills
on the long stretch for the station. The alternative was to keep going
north, strike across the range, and point for Carson. Even in this
desperate emergency the morale of the service was the deciding factor.
The mail was due at Carson in a few hours. With a pressure of his right
knee he guided Nevada Jim up the gulch toward a mountain pass he knew
above.

If his horse had been fresh McClintock would have had small fear of the
result. The Indians had no such ponies as the one he was astride. Their
stock was inferior, just as their rifles were. Moreover, at their best
they were wretched marksmen. But all the natural advantages of the white
man were neutralized. Nevada Jim was far from fresh. Any rifle was
better than none, and the pony express rider had to depend on a
revolver, good for fast-short-range work but useless now. He was one
against many, and already he could feel a wet splash on his shirt when
he pressed his hand to his side. How bad the wound was he did not know,
but it was certain that the long hard ride before him would not add to
his strength.

A boy of his age, trained in any other school except the hard outdoor
one of the frontier, might have been forgiven for getting panicky under
the circumstances. But Hugh wasted no nerve force in fear surges or in
self-pity. He had a job to do. He must do it. That was the simple A B C
of his reasoning. Quite coolly he set his mind to work on the problem of
_how_ it was to be done, given the conditions that confronted him. One
trouble was that he did not know those conditions. How long could Nevada
Jim, after the hard hours of travel that lay between him and the
station, keep going at the pace required? Was he himself likely to
collapse suddenly from loss of blood?

His best chance, he decided, lay in the speed of the bay. As soon as he
had crossed the rangeif he ever got acrosshe would try to run the
Indian ponies off their legs. If they found they could not catch him,
the Piutes would give up the chase after a few miles.

The boy looked back. The Indians had swept out of the arroyo and were
following him up the gulch. A dozen of them were bunched, with three or
four trailing behind. But well in front of the group and going strong
was a young brave mounted on a buckskin. At every stride his horse
lengthened the distance between him and his companions.

Big Chief Heap-in-a-Hurry aims to collect me, the boy told himself
aloud. Me, I got different notions. Get a hustle on you, Jim. This is
one race where I dont aim to throw down on myself.

The bay answered the call gallantly. With every ounce of bone and muscle
Nevada Jim flung forward at the steep trail. The horse gave all it had
to give, breathing heavily as it ploughed up the divide.

McClintock had changed his plans. The young Piute on the buckskin was a
factor he could not ignore. It would never do to drop down from the
hills with this enemy at his heels. The fresher mount would close in on
the bay and the Indian would pick Hugh off at his leisure. It would be
better to risk all on a bolder, more decisive stroke.

With voice and knee and the gentle caress of hand he urged Nevada Jim to
his best. I know, old-timer, its breakin yore heart, he pleaded.
But I got to ask it of youjust for a mile or two more, Jimtill we
get to the pass; then thatll be all, if our luck stands up.

Hugh felt his side again and was alarmed at the sogginess of the flannel
shirt. The pain of the wound was insistent, but he had no time to worry
about that. What troubled him was the loss of blood. He might fall out
of the saddle from sheer weakness before he reached safety.

He looked back and faintly grinned. The Indians were beginning to string
out, and the gap between the buckskin and the other horses had widened.
This was exactly what he wanted.

Come on, you Buckskin, he shouted softly down the wind. Dont you
stick around with them broomtails.

Nevada Jims lungs were pumping hard, but the clean long legs of the
horse still reached with long strides for the rising ground, the
muscular shoulders moved smoothly and automatically.

The head of the divide was close now, scarcely a quarter of a mile in
front of the fugitives. Hugh looked back as he galloped up into the
pass. The buckskin was far in advance of the other pursuers.

The pass was short and narrow. At the very summit a huge boulder
outcropped from the ridge. McClintock swung his labouring horse back of
this, and at the same instant leaped to the ground. Swiftly he
unclinched and drew the bay close to the flat face of the great rock.
For the first time since the wild race had begun he took from its
scabbard the navy revolver he carried.


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

-Hugh is being chased by Indians on horseback and is trying to lose them
-He decides his best chance is to run the Indian ponies off their legs 
-He looks back and sees that one Indian, on a buckskin, is gaining on him
-He changes his plans and decides to risk everything on a bolder move
-He urges his horse on to the pass and then hides behind a boulder
-He draws his revolver and waits for the Indian