Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XXI
THE REAPER


The spring brought trouble deep and lasting to the home of Nathan. Their
child, upon whom Lissa had rested her heart and hopes after the manner
of all mothers since the dawn of creation, sickened and died.

One day its little, warm lips had been pressed to hers, while its eyes
looked inquiringly into her face with the mysterious intensity of
infancy. The next, the waxen body lay cold and still before her
unknowing and unheeding, and the weighted agony of her heart was beyond
expression.

Oh, mothers who have had this experience, how I pity you! How my heart
bleeds for you! It is to tear out a vital part of your being, to rend
the very cords of life, to see that precious little casket of clay, so
pure, so fair, borne away. How can you bear it?

Lissa did not bear her trial bravely, but sank beneath it. For days she
neither ate nor slept. She would sit in the spot where her baby died,
and beg that it should return to her. She would pray that it might
become materialized and appear to her as the children she had at one
time seen come from a cabinet at a seance. That seemed to be her one
thought, to see it, to feel its little warm hands once more.

Nathan watched her with increasing anxiety, scarce naming, even to
himself, what he feared. At last one morning she startled him by
declaring that the child had come to her in the night. That she had seen
it and touched its hands.

It was but a dream, dearest. Little Lucy is safe in Jesus arms. Think
of that, Lissa, safe!

She turned from him impatiently.

I dont want to think of it. I want her myself. I have the best right
to her. It was cruel to take my baby, my only one. He must let her come
back to me.

But, my dear, that is impossible. Our little one is safe in a better
world, where no harm nor evil can approach her. She is waiting for us
there. Some day you can go to her, Lissa, but she may not come to you.

But I know she can and does. She is there in that corner of the room.
Sit very still, and she will come to you. See her?

Nathan, startled in spite of himself, would sit, awed and expectant,
looking in the direction indicated, while his wife, wrapped in eager
absorption, would remain motionless, becoming angry if he disturbed her.

And thus the weeks passed, bringing no relief. Lissas nature seemed
completely changed. She no longer took interest in her household
affairs, but left everything to her domestic, who at best was an
indifferent housekeeper. Nathan came home each week to find neglect and
chaos, where had once been care and order.

Lissa was petulant and easily irritated, and her dark, sad eyes looked
as if she never slept. She lost in flesh and color and her constant and
ever-recurring theme of conversation was the child she had lost.

Ah, how far from comforting is this belief which my poor wife has
embraced! If Lissa would only become reconciled to the fact that the
child cannot come to her again, she would soon recover from her sorrow,
he said to Mark Cramer, as after an unusually trying hour with her he
walked slowly with his brother-in-law toward the latters house. It is
certainly wrong to try to recall the dead.

I agree with you. God pity those who have no other belief than
spiritism.

Amen! replied Nathan. It has been weighed in the balance and found
wanting. Poor Lissa keeps herself and every one around her wretched by
constantly talking of her lost one. I feel at times she is losing her
mind. She seems to care for nothing but what she calls communing with
her child. I can see that she is failing in health as well as mind. I
hoped when the first outburst of grief was over she would, like other
mothers, become resigned, but if anything she is becoming more absorbed
in it. I cannot blame her friends for staying away from her. They do not
want to hear the same story continually. If I propose that we go away
for a time she looks alarmed and refuses to leave the house, because of
the nightly visits of her little one. Surely, surely, Mark, it is a
delusion. It cannot be that she _does_ see her? he questioned.

I certainly believe, Nate, that she is self-deceived and that unless
her mind can in some way be diverted and given other food she will die
or become insane. I was surprised to-day to see the change in her, even
in the short time I have been gone.

If she would only take some interest in her household affairs, but she
leaves everything to Neoka, who is poorly fitted for such
responsibility. I might send for her mother


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is sad and anxious. The tone is one of despair, and the point of view is from Nathan's perspective.