Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
IV
THROUGH CLAIRVOYANT VISION


And now, as the exhibitor of a panorama might say, it becomes necessary
to introduce our readers or audience to new scenes and stranger people.
But these strangers being near and dear to the heart of the writer, if
not yet to the reader, become in their lives so intermingled and
interwoven in the lives and histories of the persons first introduced
that we can no longer allow them to remain behind the scenes.

We must also go back in time several years to a period when the prairies
of the West were in some portions less thickly populated than at
present, and the mushroom growth of the towns was still a marvel to the
slower growing East. To a time, also, when the so-called modern
spiritualism was of a newer growth and when esoteric philosophy,
occultism, and the many other _isms_ dealing with the life beyond the
grave were less talked of.

The place, a small town in western Iowa, and a country farm-house,
nestles down in one of the horse-shoe coves formed by the bluffs above
the eastern border of the Missouri River.

There are no neighboring dwellings in sight, though but a few rods away
are other houses situated also in coves in the bluffs, forming quite a
large community, living near but out of sight of each other.

Large herds of horses and cattle are seen grazing upon the unfenced
pasture land, and a small schoolhouse standing out like a beacon from a
ridge of highland is the only building visible, except the barns and
corn-cribs belonging to the farms.

The house itself is low and long, with several additions or lean-tos,
but has an air of comfort and hospitality, looking out as it does upon
the many acres of rolling plateau, where far away is seen the dark line
of the country road winding about the base of the bluffs or climbing
steeply up the sides of them. A long lane branches from the main road
and leads up to the house, and affords a view of any coming visitor for
some distance away, and lines of cowpaths thread the steep hills at the
back of the dwelling.

Thus sequestered and hill-environed lived Squire Bartram with his wife
and two sons, enjoying the peace and plenty of the average well-to-do
farmer, with none of the business care and excitements which a life in
town might bring.

Squire Bartram was one of those who had the good fortune to have been
born in that most coveted birth-place, Massachusetts, and perhaps,
better than all, he first opened his eyes upon the renowned and
beautiful Berkshire Hills. In early childhood he had been taught the
religion and creed of those Puritan fathers who founded the first homes
there, and had been brought up to a most strict observance of all moral
and evangelical law. His life had been frugally and honestly spent upon
a farm up to the time when, listening to the preaching of the early
apostles of Mormonism, he felt himself called to a priesthood among the
Saints.

Later, when he had endured martyrdom and privations for the sake of this
belief, he found himself face to face with the till-then concealed
doctrine of plural marriage. From this his Puritan instincts revolted
and he quitted the church with many others who located near Council
Bluffs. But, cast out from a church he had loved, his faith shattered,
his illusions destroyed, he was ready to turn to any creed or _ism_
which came his way.

As he learned more of the newly taught creed of modern spiritism, he
began to give it credence, the more so as he believed he could
understand, from such a standpoint, the life of the prophet Joseph
Smith. Was not Smith a spirit-medium and were not the trances and
visions which he claimed to have had similar or identical with those
mediumistic exhibitions which he now witnessed? Might not the prophet
himself have been deceived and the revelation which he supposed to have
come from God been but the communication of a false and dangerous
spirit? In this way, only, could he find an apology for the prophet,
whom he had loved and believed in as little less than a god.

Squire Bartrams sons had grown up stalwart, brainy lads, ambitious and
capable. Nathan, the elder, who had lately brought to his fathers home
a bright little sixteen-year-old wife, with black eyes, shining ringlets
and bird-like movements, had prepared a home on the Nebraskan prairies,
to which he was soon to take his bride. He had preempted a homestead,
bought another one hundred and sixty acres, and thus secured a nice farm
on the plain some distance north of the Platte River. He had, after the
manner of the pioneers of the country, built himself an adobe house, and
was now ready to begin life in earnest.

His wife, Lissa, whose sister lived in that locality, was possessed of
the delighted eagerness of a child to see and occupy the new home and
was almost impatient of the delay which Nathan insisted upon, namely,
the visit of a few weeks at his fathers house.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Squire Bartram and his family live on a farm in Iowa near the Missouri River. His sons are Nathan and Bartram. Nathan is married to a woman named Lissa. They are about to move to a farm in Nebraska. 
Before they leave, they visit Squire Bartram's house. While they are there, Squire Bartram tells Nathan about his beliefs in modern spiritualism. He explains that he believes Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, was deceived by false spirits. 
Nathan listens to his father, but he does not share his beliefs. He is eager to get to his new farm in Nebraska. Lissa is also excited to start their new life together.
After a few weeks, Nathan and Lissa say goodbye to Squire Bartram and his wife and begin their journey to Nebraska.