Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
II


HURRAH FOR WASHOE!

Placerville was busy as a hive of bees on a warm June afternoon. Its
hotels and restaurants were crowded to capacity. The saloons were doing
a rush business and the gambling halls teemed with a packed and jostling
humanity. Grocery stores bustled with the activity of clerks filling
orders, packing supplies, nailing up boxes, and sewing bales. The main
streets were filled with mixed crowds of miners, speculators, gamblers,
men of leisure then known as bummers, and such flotsam as is always
washed up in the stampede for a new mining camp.

Vaqueros drove loaded mules and burros through the streets with soft
liquid oaths of command. A sixteen-horse ore wagon, painted red, the bed
of it six feet deep, rumbled down the road with two back-actions
behind, each of these also filled with ore. They had come straight from
the diggings at Virginia City. Freight outfits were loading at stores
and wholesale liquor houses with supplies for the new camp. Men bought
and sold hurriedly. A hundred outfits were being roped up to cross the
Sierras to the Carson Valley. Ox teams swung into town and out again
with goods for the new district. Everywhere was that orderly confusion
of many cross currents of humanity moving to a common end.

That common end was Washoe.[2] The name was on every tongue. It
dominated every mind. All the able-bodied old prospectors who had come
round the Horn in the old days, who had followed the stampedes to Kern
River, the Fraser, and Told Bluff, were now headed as by one impulse for
the silver diggings at the foot of Mt. Davidson. Such rich grounds never
had been seen before. All one had to do was to pan the outcroppings and
grow rich in a few weeks. Hurrah for Washoe! Hip hip for the land of
golden dreams! Washoe or bust!

-----

[2] Nevada was commonly known as Washoe until its admission as a
territory under the Spanish name.W. M. R.

-----

A canvas-covered emigrant wagon drawn by a pair of emaciated horses
moved slowly toward the hills. The driver was a bullet-headed young
fellow with sullen, close-set eyes. These were a peculiar
grayish-yellow, and the pupils were very small. He was unshaven, poorly
dressed, and far from clean. The hardship of a long overland trip had
undermined his self-respect and worn away the thin veneer of the mans
civility.

At the crest of the first rise he turned in his seat and looked back
toward the town. Good-bye, Hangtown,[3] he shouted with an oath,
shaking his ragged whip.

-----

[3] In the early days Placerville was often called Hangtown.

-----

The skeleton horses crept up the road toward the mountains. Presently
evidence of the stampede to Washoe began to manifest itself. The prairie
schooner passed a broken-down stage, a smashed wheel, a splintered wagon
tongue snapped in the middle. An empty whisky barrel advertised one of
the chief staples of trade. A dead burro lay half buried in the mire.

The road had been a good one once. Perhaps it would be hard and firm
again after the slush from the rains had dried. Just now it was one to
try the patience of man and beast. There were stretches where even the
pack mules bogged down while Mexican drivers beat and hauled at them to
an accompaniment of excited curses in their native tongue.

A stage from Virginia City swung down the grade, Pony King on the box
holding the lines, his long whip crackling out snakelike toward the
leaders. The stage was not a handsome Concord, the pride of every
employee of the company, but one of the mud-wagons used as a substitute
when the roads were bad. A pack train of fifteen animals overtook the
covered wagon. These carried nothing but liquorswhisky, gin, lager
beer, brandy, some pipes of California wine, and a few baskets of
champagne. Foot travellers, carrying outfits on their backs, ploughed
wearily forward. Nothing but the wonders of the Comstock Lode could have
kept their tired legs moving through the mud.

At every gulch there was a bar, the fixtures improvised from a couple of
dry-goods boxes and a canvas top. Restaurants announced themselves every
few miles, as well as hotels, which had all necessary accommodations for
tired stampeders except food, beds, and bedding.

Later in the day the prairie schooner came into a region where patches
of snow began to appear in the hill crotches above. The grade was
stiffer and the poor horses made sorry progress. A dozen times they gave
up, exhausted. The driver beat them furiously with his whip and flung
raucous curses at them. From the wagon a big-eyed child and a wan-faced
woman dismounted to lighten the load. Once the woman timidly murmured a
protest at her husbands brutality. Savagely he turned on her, snarling
his rage explosively.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with a description of the bustle in Placerville, a town in California, as people hurry to prepare for a stampede to the new mining camp at Washoe. We are introduced to the driver of a canvas-covered wagon, a young man with a sullen expression and yellowish-gray eyes. He is unkempt and unshaven, and the hardships of the journey have taken their toll on his appearance.
The wagon slowly makes its way out of town, and the driver shouts a farewell to Placerville as he does. The road is in poor condition, and the going is tough for the horses pulling the wagon. The driver is forced to stop frequently to rest the horses, and he grows increasingly impatient and angry.
As the wagon approaches the mountains, the driver begins to see evidence of the stampede to Washoe in the form of abandoned wagons and supplies. He also sees a pack train of mules carrying liquor, and he comments on the fact that the only thing these people seem to be interested in is getting drunk.
Finally, the wagon reaches a region where patches of snow are visible in the hills, and the going gets even tougher. The driver beats the horses mercilessly, and at one point his wife tries to protest but he turns on her angrily.