Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
At that there was a sudden clamour of voices, some cheering, and not
a little hooting, for the name "Pretender" was not pleasant in
Jacobite ears.

But Inverness was in Hanoverian hands, and so the noise died away,
and all eyes were turned again upon the man on the horse.  He was a
great, red-faced fellow, very pompous and self sufficient, and had
his hair not looked so laughable through the loss of his hat, might
have impressed his auditors enormously.

The news he had brought sent a strange stir through the town.  People
began to talk in little clusters in the roadway, taverns quickly
filled with gossipers, shutters began to rattle together, and anxious
faces peered round the corners of windows.

Suddenly down the street sounded the tramp of feet, and a score of
excited eyes were turned in the hope of seeing the Highland army
march into the town.  But no--it was the Hanoverian garrison some two
thousand strong, commanded by Lord Loudon, about to evacuate.  At
that the confusion grew more intense, and ardent Jacobites could
scarce refrain from donning the white cockade, while less ardent
Hanoverians did not know whether to cheer or take to flight, and
honest tradesfolk wore long faces thinking of their goods, for who
could protect them against wild, Highland caterans, hungry from long
marching?

Rob slipped from group to group, listening to a word here and there,
feeling a bitter contempt in his heart for these people of streets
and shops.

The Hanoverian soldiers had passed out of Inverness by midday, and
crossing the Moray Firth retired into Ross-shire, and still the
clatter of voices went on, and here and there a group of men were
walking the streets with claymores at their sides, ready for the
arrival of the Prince.  At last Rob Fraser, grown weary of idling,
turned in the direction of the school, and stealing inside the
doorway was astonished to find it very quiet and empty, and with no
sign of boy or master.

Of that master, whose name was the strange one of Ephraim Macaulay,
something must be said.

He had arrived in Inverness three months earlier, on the introduction
of the Lord President Forbes, and his predecessor had been asked to
retire.  The whole business was very mysterious.  Some said the old
schoolmaster (who was a whole-hearted Jacobite) would return, and
others that he was in disgrace with the Government, and counted as a
conspirator for the Stuarts.  At any rate, Mr. Macaulay appeared, and
from the moment he had entered the place Rob had hated him with all
his heart.

Mr. Macaulay was an exceedingly tall, thin man, very straight and
smileless, with a long, hatchet face.  He was decently dressed in
black clothes, and wore silver buckles on his shoes, but there was
something strange in his manner, and in his secrecy, and there had
been rumours that he saw overmuch of Lord Loudon.  In his aspect
there was a strong resemblance to a hawk, through his habit of
staring unblinkingly into space.  For minutes together he would stand
thus, and then of a sudden he would start and stare keenly about him
with his sombre black eyes, and awaken, as it were, to his duties,
which he seemed to find utterly irksome and dejecting.

Rob went on tiptoe into the room where he was in the habit of
listening (somewhat absently) to the words of Ephraim Macaulay, and
crossing the floor, peered into the shadowy passage which led to the
schoolmaster's study.

The door was ajar, and from the room beyond came the sound of voices,
a low grumble in deep undertones, as though two men were in close
conversation--and very full of it.  He heard a chair fall as though a
man had sprung to his feet, and while he hesitated Mr. Macaulay cried
"Muckle John" in a tone of surprise and agitation.  "In Inverness,"
replied another voice strange to Rob.

Rob turned to steal away, but even as he did so the murmur of voices
ceased, and before he could make off, the study door was flung back,
and the long arm of the schoolmaster shot out and clutched his
shoulder.  It was so quickly done that he could not even duck for
safety, and before he could shake himself free, the master's
companion had cut off his retreat and gripped his arms.  He had been
caught eavesdropping.

Mr. Macaulay glanced at Rob with unmistakable malice, then, springing
to his feet, he laid hands upon his cane.

"What have ye heard?" he asked sharply, but with anxiety written all
over his face.

"Nothing," said Rob stoutly, "I did not know there was any one there."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Rob Fraser is a young boy in Inverness, Scotland, in the year 1745. He is a Jacobite, and is excited by the news that the Pretender ( Bonnie Prince Charlie) is coming to claim the throne. However, he is also aware that the Hanoverian garrison is about to evacuate the town, and that there is likely to be chaos when the Highland army arrives.
Rob goes to the school where he is a pupil, and is surprised to find it empty. He sneaks into the schoolmaster's study, where he hears two men talking. He is caught eavesdropping by the schoolmaster, who demands to know what he has heard.
Rob insists that he has heard nothing, but the schoolmaster does not believe him. He is about to be punished with a cane when the other man intervenes, saying that Rob is only a child and does not know anything. The schoolmaster reluctantly agrees, and lets Rob go.