Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"It has occurred to me that you promised," returned Miss Macpherson.

"Promised!  What are promises between you and me?"

"Then Rob is to be left to his fate?"

"No."

"What do you mean?"

Muckle John turned, and threw back his shoulders.

"You have yet to learn," he said stiffly, "that the oath of a
Highland gentleman can never be broken.  I swore on the dirk I would
bring him safe from prison, and that I will do."

Once more he seemed on the point of falling into another fit of fury;
but fought it down, and pointed instead to her horse.

"Go!" he cried.  "And not a word of this or I'll string you up to
your ain roof-tree, and no' so sorry to have the excuse."

"Mercy me!" murmured Miss Macpherson, and made for her beast.

Then, mounting, she sent him through the heather towards the track.

A hundred yards down the hill-side she looked back.  But the little
cluster of trees was empty of life.  Muckle John had vanished as
though he had never been.  With a sudden fear clutching at her heart,
she dug her heels into the horse's ribs, and broke into a disjointed
canter.

On the same morning that saw Miss Macpherson urging her mount towards
Inverness, in a cave upon a wild and desolate mountain-top three men
were seated playing a hand of cards.  They were all in the Highland
dress, and armed to the teeth--lean, swarthy men, burned by the sun
to a deep black-red--sitting silent as statues, eyes intent upon the
game.  Beside one of them lay a handful of gold coins.  Near the
mouth of the cave, lying on his stomach, was a boy of about fifteen,
watching the hill-side.

Suddenly he uttered a low word in Gaelic, and instantly but in the
same grave silence the men ended their play, and gathering up the
cards one slipped them into his sporran.

A moment later the mouth of the cave darkened and the huge form of
Muckle John filled the entrance.  He nodded to each of them as they
saluted him, and motioning them to be seated he lay for a long time
gnawing his lip and staring gloomily upon the ground.  They appeared
not unused to such behaviour for they drew together at the farthest
corner and the man with the cards in his sporran took them out again
and, dealing them round, the game went on as before.  An hour passed
and Muckle John had said no word--had made no sign.  Of a sudden,
however, a slow smile began to creep into his eyes and soften the
corners of his mouth.  A droll expression flitted across his face and
vanished.

Then, taking a piece of clean paper from his pocket, and a pencil, he
studied Rob's writing in a deep pause, and began to write in a close
imitation, as follows:


"This to tell you that the treasure is discovered, and that unless it
be put in a safe place, all will be lost.  The bearer of this letter
can be trusted.  Come to me at a place that this man will show you,
for the Prince is with me, and is in need of you and some gold.  ROB
FRASER."


This he addressed to Dr. Archibald Cameron in the Braes of Lochaber,
and turning towards the crouching circle in the corner, he called one
of them, Donald Grant by name, to him, and instructed him for some
time in a very earnest voice.

"Listen, Donald," he said, "and let there be no bungling, for I am
not minded to be soft-spoken if aught goes wrong.  In Lochaber there
lies a gentleman by name Archibald Cameron--a brother to Lochiel.  He
is skulking with Murray of Broughton.  I heard so much two days
since.  Hand him this paper and keep a slow tongue, but if he presses
you say you were sent by a laddie--a reddish, blue-eyed Fraser boy,
and that maybe he minds the words--'there's a muirfowl snared.'
Bring him with you and keep him under close guard until I come back.
But before you do that, give this second strip of tartan to John
Murray of Broughton, and bid him hand it to Lord Lovat as a warning
from one he kens well."

With these words he dismissed the man, who slid through the entrance
and set out at a slow indefatigable trot for the south.

In the same active, masterful manner he summoned the remainder of the
party and addressed them rapidly in Gaelic.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its use of dialect, its matter-of-fact tone, and its third-person point of view.