Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Already, however, the main body of the Highlanders was wavering.  The
first wild charge had shattered their ranks.  The English cavalry
were advancing and some one shouted that the Prince was killed.
Panic began to do its work.  Soon after the left wing commenced to
march off the field.

All about Rob arose hoarse cries, groans, eddying smoke, and the roar
and clatter of arms.  Into the thick of the conflict he struggled
onwards.  He thrust and parried and thrust again with his claymore.
Well for him was it that his father had taught him the secrets of a
stiff wrist and the upper cut.  An English soldier rushed at him red
with battle madness, and shouting as he came.  Rob, receiving a blow
from an upraised musket on his targe, drove home his claymore and
heard the cry die out in the man's throat into a choking sob,
and--silence.

Then, before he could disengage his sword, a dragoon, spurring his
horse over the heaps of fallen men, slashed at his head with his
sabre, and, missing him, pulled up his beast and charged again.  For
Rob the situation was desperate, but seeing a little solitary group
of Highlanders near by, he took to his heels and reached them,
picking up an English musket as he ran.  He was barely in time; had
not a huge Cameron armed with a broadsword hewn down his opponent, it
would have fared badly indeed with him.  As it was, he clubbed his
musket, and standing back to back with the others, prepared to fall
as hardly as possible.

The tide of battle swept backwards and forwards; but all over the
fatal moor the Jacobite army was in retreat.  Gradually the little
group about him thinned, until only a bare dozen remained, and it was
in a breathing-space that Rob suddenly perceived Muckle John amongst
them.

His head was bound in a piece of tartan, and bleeding profusely; but
the smile was in his eyes, and his claymore rose and fell, and every
time a man floundered upon the ground.  Before him there lay a heap
of Englishmen as high as his elbow.

Presently the smoke of powder cleared a little, and over the moor
came a squadron of dragoons at a loose canter, killing all who stood
in their way, both wounded and unarmed.  Round the little circle of
faces Muckle John looked swiftly.

"Now," said he, "it is each for himself," and he whistled a sprig of
a tune as he began to swing his sword-arm.

With a hoarse yell the dragoons were on them.  Two fell to Muckle
John, there was a wild clash, and a man beside Rob dropped with a
groan.  And then came an oppressive weight of horses kicking,
plunging, rearing--and a blinding blow flung him unconscious beneath
their flying feet.


It was well indeed for Rob that death seemed to have snatched him
from the cruel hands of his enemies, and the pile of dead and dying
about him sheltered his body from the search parties of Hanoverians
now busy upon their work of butchery.

When at last he opened his eyes and stared about him silence had
fallen over the field--a silence infinitely tragic and menacing, pent
up with disaster and following retribution.

Very slowly facts began to stare him in the face.  Even he,
inexperienced in the manners of war and defeat as he was, realized
with a shudder that if he could not crawl away certain death awaited
him as it had met those silent figures all about him.  The blow on
his head throbbed horribly.  He felt sick and weak.  At last he made
an effort to turn upon his side, and moaned aloud.  Then suddenly he
clenched his lips, and dropped upon his face, for near at hand he
caught the tramp of footsteps, and heard the harsh voices of English
soldiery.

Nearer they came, until they halted beside him.

"None for Master Gibbet 'ere," said one, and a chuckle followed.

"You never know," said another, and began dragging the bodies this
way and that.

A muffled groan came from one of these unfortunates, and a moment
later, to Rob's horror, a pistol barked, and the same grim silence
fell again.

Then a hand gripped him by the arm, and turned him over.  To feign
death--that old, hazardous device--was Rob's solitary hope.  He lay
with closed eyes, holding his breath, in an agony of suspense.
Second followed second, and no sound reached him.  Stealthy footsteps
he heard, and a muffled laugh, but nothing to warn him of immediate
impending danger.  So awful became the mysterious nature of the delay
that he could hold out no longer.  Breathe he must, or he would burst
his lungs.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is one of suspense and terror. The point of view is from the perspective of an observer, and the tone is one of dread and foreboding.