Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
IV
THE CAPITAL

When I regained consciousness it was night again. I was lying upon the
ground, out beneath the stars. For a moment I experienced a sense of
utter comfort, but as my tired nerves awoke they spoke to me of pain and
stiffness from many wounds, and my head throbbed with pain. I tried to
raise a hand to it, and it was then that I discovered that my wrists
were bound. I could feel the matted stiffness of my scalp, and I knew
that it was caked with dried blood, doubtless from the blow that had
stunned me.

In attempting to move, that I might ease my cramped muscles, I found
that my ankles were fastened together as well as my wrists, but I
managed to roll over, and raising my head a little from the ground I
looked about and saw that I was surrounded by sleeping Kalkars and that
we lay in a barren hollow ringed by hills. There were no fires, and from
this fact and the barrenness and seclusion of the camp I guessed that we
were snatching a brief rest in hiding from a pursuing foe.

I tried to sleep, but could do so only fitfully, and presently I heard
men moving about and soon they approached and awakened the warriors
sleeping near me. The thongs were removed from my ankles shortly
thereafter, and Red Lightning was brought and I was helped into the
saddle. Immediately after, we resumed the march. A glance at the stars
showed me that we were moving west. Our way led through hills and was
often rough, evidencing that we were following no beaten trail, but
rather that the Kalkars were attempting to escape by a devious route.

I could only guess at the numbers of them, but it was evident that there
was not the great horde that had set forth from the battlefield below
the pass of the ancients. Whether they had separated into smaller bands,
or the balance had been slain I could not even conjecture; but that
their losses must have been tremendous I was sure. We travelled all that
day, stopping only occasionally when there was water for the horses and
the men. I was given neither food nor water, nor did I ask for either. I
would die rather than ask a favor of an Or-tis. In fact, I did not speak
all that day, nor did any of the Kalkars address me.

I had seen more Kalkars in the past two days than in all my life before
and was now pretty familiar with the appearance of them. They range in
height from six to eight feet, the majority of them being midway between
these extremes. There is a great variety of physiognomy among them, for
they are a half-caste race, being the result of hundreds of years of
interbreeding between the original Moon Men and the women of the Earth
whom they seized for slaves when they overran and conquered the world.
Among them there is occasionally an individual who might pass anywhere
for a Yank, in so far as external appearances are concerned; but the
low, coarse, brutal features of the Kalkar preponderate.

They wear a white blouse and breeches of cotton woven by their slaves
and long, woolen cloaks fabricated by the same busy hands. Their women
help in this work as well as in the work of the fields, for the Kalkar
women are no better than slaves, with the possible exception of those
who belong to the families of the Jemadar and his nobles. Their cloaks
are of red, with collars of various colors, or with borders or other
designs to denote rank. Their weapons are similar to ours, but heavier.
They are but indifferent horsemen. That, I think, is because they ride
only from necessity and not, as we, from love of it.

That night, after dark, we came to a big Kalkar camp. It was one of the
camps of the ancients, the first that I ever had seen. It must have
covered a great area, and some of the huge stone tents were still
standing. It was in these that the Kalkars lived or in dirt huts leaning
against them. In some places I saw where the Kalkars had built smaller
tents from the building materials salvaged from the ruins of the ancient
camp, but as a rule they were satisfied with hovels of dirt, or the
half-fallen and never-repaired structures of the ancients.

This camp lies about forty-five or fifty miles west of the battlefield,
among beautiful hills and rich groves, upon the banks of what must once
have been a mighty river, so deeply has it scoured its pathway into the
earth in ages gone.[2]

-----

[2] The camp described probably occupies the site of present-day
Pasadena.

-----

I was hustled into a hut where a slave woman gave me food and water.
There was a great deal of noise and excitement outside, and through the
open doorway I could hear snatches of conversation as Kalkars passed to
and fro. From what I heard, I gathered that the defeat of the Kalkars
had been complete and that they were flying toward the coast and their
principal camp, called The Capital, which the slave woman told me lay a
few miles southwest. This, she said, was a wonderful camp, with tents
reaching so high into the heavens that often the Moon brushed against
their tops as she made her way through the sky.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

- protagonist wakes up in the night, bound and surrounded by sleeping Kalkars
- they are in hiding, and resume their march westward
- protagonist is given no food or water
- they reach a big Kalkar camp, and protagonist is put in a hut with a slave woman
- the slave woman tells him that they are heading to The Capital, a camp southwest of their current location