Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
X


THE trouble with keeping a cat in the bag is that, however good it may
be for the cat, it is seldom good for the bag, and the less accustomed
the cat is to this method of confinement, the worse it will be for
the case containing it. Liane was not in the habit of muzzling her
temper; on the contrary, she asked nothing better than a tolerably
good opportunity for letting it fly. To-night, however, she had kept
her temper admirably, first, when Jean had appeared pre-occupied on
the way to the theatre, and secondly, on the stage when her familiar
presence was greeted with less applause than Margots little song. She
had made up her mind instantly that the song must go; but she had not
allowed any hint of the intention to appear. The song could easily be
cut, and once it was cut, she would keep no grudge against the absurdly
fresh-looking little person who sang it. But Margot Selba humbly
retiring from her part and Margot sitting on a box with Jean were two
different persons. One needed chastening and the other called for
annihilation. The cat could bear it no longer, it tore its way out of
the bag.

The first creature that it came across under these circumstances was
sure, of course, to get the worst of it--an enraged animal strikes at
what is nearest. In this case it happened to be Jean, and not Margot.
Liane reached her dressing-room in solemn silence; she looked at the
watch on her wrist and saw that she had half an hour. Then she turned
on Jean.

Never speak to that girl again! she cried fiercely. Do you suppose I
bring you here with me to make love to a _cabotine_ behind my back?

Jean drew back in anger. So this was what he got for sacrificing the
first decent feeling he had had for an age! He had given up his happy
little moment of virtue simply to have Liane fly in his face! He put on
the air of a hard man of the world; he felt a rebuffed boy.

Really, Liane, he said, making a pretence of lighting a cigarette;
one would suppose you had no discrimination. Cant you see I was
merely being polite to a little girl who sang well?

Liane flung off her Cleopatra robe and began making-up for a fresh
scene, while she tossed her words at Jean over her shoulder.

A pretty fool you must think I am! she said disdainfully. You were
being polite to a girl who sang well, were you? One would suppose you
had been calling on a _jeune fille_ of the provinces to hear you! No,
no! my friend! this is a theatre and that girl there is a _cabotine_--a
pinch of dust--a little worm under my foot! Sing well indeed! What
next? They will have crows for Opera before you hear Selba on these
boards again! You suppose yourself to be a musician already, it seems,
and you are _not_, you are nothing! I take you away from your cows in
the country, I lift you to an honour many men would perish for, yes,
and have perished for in vain! and I have to see you in my own theatre
treating a woman of my position to the very last indignity--the very
last, I would have you know, Jean, that a woman of my spirit will put
up with. Selba indeed! She flung her powder-puff across the room, and
touched up her left eyebrow in a dramatic but carefully measured fury.

Jean felt sick. He did not believe in all this nonsense about Selba;
he felt instead the sharp return of his former doubt--had she kept her
promise about Golaud?

It was not the most auspicious moment to ask her, and yet the pressure
of the unendurable was upon him. He felt himself boxed up with a lie;
there was not one word of reality in Liane; she was a splendid vision
as she sat there facing the mirror, but her very beauty seemed to set
his teeth on edge. Was not this false too, upheld by the paraphernalia
of little boxes and paintbrushes, of long, fine coils of false hair,
without any of that tender natural grace which had not been enough to
keep him by Margots side a few minutes ago? He was ashamed of himself.
He paced to and fro in the tiny, hot little room and thought of all his
fine principles with a fierce disgust.

_Eh bien!_ said Liane. Have you nothing to say for yourself; are you
dumb as well as blind? You could talk well enough, it appears, to that
piece of rubbish downstairs.

Liane, he jerked at her quickly. Have you seen Golaud again?

Liane stared at him.

What? she said, twisting a pearl net in and out of her hair. So you
think to get out of it that way, do you? Seen him again? Of course I
have seen him again, and why not, I should like to know! What do you
stare at me like that for, with your mouth open and your face white,
like a foiled villain in the fourth act who sees his wifes ghost? I
told you once before I was not a nun. I see whom I please, I do what I
like--and I amuse myself! I like you when you are good, because you are
poor and an artist. I like Maurice Golaud because he is rich and _not_
an artist. He does not object to you; why should you object to him?


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Liane: an actress, the protagonist of the scene. She is angry with Jean for flirting with Margot Selba, a singer at the theatre.
-Jean: a musician, Liane's lover. He is from the country and she has brought him to the city to be her protégé.
-Margot Selba: a singer at the theatre. She is the object of Jean's flirting.