Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
V

_ROUND THE LOG-FIRE--HURRICANE BILL AND THE
TIGER-SNAKE--GENTLEMAN CRAIG'S RESOLVE._

Kangaroo driving or hunting is one of the wild sports of Australia,
though I have heard it doubted whether there was any real sport in
it.  It is extremely exciting, and never much more dangerous than a
ride after the hounds at home in a rough country.

It really does seem little short of murder, however, to surround the
animals and slay them wholesale; only, be it remembered, they are
extremely hard upon the herbage.  It has been said that a kangaroo
will eat as much as two sheep; whether this be true or not, these
animals must be kept down, or they will keep the squatter down.
Every other species of wild animal disappears before man, but
kangaroos appear to imagine that human beings were sent into the bush
to make two blades of grass grow where only one grew before, and that
both blades belong to them.

The only people from Burley New Farm who went to the Findlayson
kangaroo drive were Harry, Archie, and Etheldene, and Craig to look
after her.  Mr. Winslow stopped at home with Bob, to give him advice
and suggest improvements; for he well knew his daughter would be safe
with Gentleman Craig.

It was a long ride, however, and one night was to be spent in camp;
but as there was nothing to do, and nothing in the shape of cattle or
sheep to look after, it was rather jolly than otherwise.  They found
a delightful spot near a clear pool and close by the forest to make
their pitch on for the night.

Hurricane Bill was the active party on this occasion; he found wood
with the help of Harry, and enough of it to last till the morning.
The beauty, or one of the beauties, of the climate in this part of
Australia is, that with the sun the thermometer sinks, and the later
spring and even summer nights are very pleasant indeed.

When supper was finished, and tea, that safest and best of
stimulants, had been discussed, talking became general; everybody was
in good spirits in the expectation of some fun on the morrow; for a
longish ride through the depth of that gloomy forest would bring them
to the plain and to Findlayson's in time for a second breakfast.

Hurricane Bill told many a strange story of Australian life, but all
in the way of conversation; for Bill was a shy kind of man, and
wanted a good deal of drawing-out, as the dog said about the badger.

Archie gave his experiences of hunting in England, and of shooting
and fishing and country adventure generally in that far-off land, and
he had no more earnest listener than Etheldene.  To her England was
the land of romance.  Young though she was, she had read the most of
Walter Scott's novels, and had an idea that England and Scotland were
still peopled as we find these countries described by the great
wizard, and she did not wish to be disillusioned.  The very mention
of the word "castle," or "ruin," or "coat of mail," brought fancies
and pictures into her mind that she would not have had blotted out on
any account.

Over and over again, many a day and many a time, she had made Archie
describe to her every room in the old farm; and his turret-chamber
high up above the tall-spreading elm trees, where the rooks built and
cawed in spring, and through which the wild winds of winter moaned
and soughed when the leaves had fallen, was to Etheldene a veritable
room in fairy-land.

"Oh," she said to-night, "how I should love it all!  I do want to go
to England, and I'll make father take me just once before I die."

"Before ye die, miss!" said Hurricane Bill.  "Why it is funny to hear
the likes o' you, with all the world before ye, talkin' about dying."

Well, by-and-by London was mentioned, and then it was Harry's turn.
He was by no means sorry to have something to say.

"Shall I describe to you, Miss Winslow," he said, "some of the wild
sights of Whitechapel?"

"Is it a dreadfully wild place, Mr. Brown?"

"It is rather; eh, Johnnie?"

"I don't know much about it, Harry."

"Well, there are slums near by there, miss, that no man with a black
coat and an umbrella dare enter in daylight owing to the wild beasts.
Then there are peelers."

"What are peelers?  Monkeys?"


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Hurricane Bill: the active party on this occasion; shy kind of man
-Harry: in good spirits; finds wood with the help of Hurricane Bill
-Archie: experiences of hunting in England; has an idea that England and Scotland are still peopled as described by Walter Scott
-Etheldene: to her England was the land of romance; makes Archie describe the old farm to her
-Gentleman Craig: looks after Etheldene