Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Like a horse with its head for home the train put on steam. We ran along
and over a number of streams gliding between willow-lined banks. The
white patches where the water ran over boulders and the swaying of the
vegetation spoke of the gentle murmur we could not hear. You would call
it clean, peaceful country, not unlike the Ile-de-France; yes, a country
you could live and be happy in.

Lautenburg station, on the other hand, was frankly monstrous, a smaller
but more extravagant copy of the famous station of Metz. But before I
had time to take in the details, I heard an obsequious murmur of:
"Professor Vignerte?" from a man in a peaked cap who took my ticket.

Marais had wired the time of my arrival. The man in the cap signalled
and two huge lackeys in black and gold livery suddenly appeared before
me. One of them took my luggage while the other assisted me to enter an
enormous limousine which started at once. In ten minutes we had passed
through Lautenburg and were entering at top speed what I took to be the
great courtyard of the Castle. At all events a sentry presented arms.

"Will the Herr Professor kindly get out?" said the lackey, opening the
door while the chauffeur sounded his horn.

A round, red-faced steward appeared on the steps and bowed three or four
times.

"Has the Herr Professor had a pleasant journey? Will he be kind enough
to follow me and I will take him to his room."

With all the fellowships rolled into one I shouldn't have been addressed
as "Professor" as many times in ten years in France as I was in
Lautenburg on the morning of my arrival alone.

My luggage was in my room. I admit that it was not without a feeling of
approval that I saw a very enticing meal spread out on the table.

"If the Herr Professor wants anything, he has only to ring. Ludwig, his
valet, is at hand, entirely at his service."

As he was going out the stout functionary bowed even lower than before
and handed me an envelope studded with red seals.

"Will the Herr Professor kindly accept the letter left for him by Major
von Kessel."

Major von Kessel, the tutor of his Highness Duke Joachim, offered his
apologies for his inability to receive me on my arrival. Unfortunately
the whole Court of Lautenburg had gone hunting and he himself had to
accompany his pupil. He therefore suggested my spending the day in
making myself at home in the palace. He would have the honour to receive
me at a quarter to ten on the following morning, Monday, with a view to
presenting me to the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus.

Wishing to test my new powers at once, I rang. Ludwig appeared.

"Good Lord!" I thought, "if M. Thierry could only see you he'd feel
reassured."

The fellow, thirty years old or so, had the most amazingly inexpressive
face I had ever beheld before I went to Germany. Subsequently I became
quite used to these good-natured, blue-eyed bran-bags. His head was that
of nine out of ten of our prisoners.

I only managed to extract from Ludwig one piece of information, that I
should take my meals on the ground floor (my room was on the floor
above) in a room reserved for the civil and military establishment of
Duke Joachim, that is to say myself, Major von Kessel and Professor
Cyrus Beck, of Kiel University. In addition we could all have meals
served in our own rooms if we wished.


Vignerte had hitherto spoken in the same level tone, finding no
difficulty in recalling the smallest detail of a story with which he
visibly lived night and day. But at this point he paused.


I see, my friend, that my tale is not boring you, but I begin to be
conscious now of the difficulties of my task. Hitherto chronological
order has been enough, but at this point I must change it for a time or
I shall risk confusing you and obscuring the broad outline with a mass
of petty detail. Let me give you now a detailed description of
Lautenburg and its inhabitants. When I have done this we will return to
the course of events. They will group the picture.




1. THE PALACE


I should say palaces, rather than palace, as the residence of the Grand
Dukes of Lautenburg-Detmold is a combination of a Renaissance castle,
built on one side of a Gothic keep, and a Louis Quatorze palace
shamelessly copied from Versailles. Taken separately, each of these
components is not without architectural merit, but their combination
presented enormous difficulties to the architect of the Grand Duke
Ulrich, the present sovereign's grandfather, who was instructed to make
a symmetrical whole of these incompatible edifices. He solved his
problem by throwing out a wing on the left, erecting a flanking tower on
the right, and adding in the centre a kind of hall which is a cross
between the Gare d'Orsay and the Chapel at Versailles. I admit his task
was appalling, but why is it that these insoluble architectural puzzles
are always to be met with in Germany?


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with a description of the train journey to Lautenburg, which is described as clean and peaceful. However, the station is described as monstrous, and the protagonist is met by two large lackeys in black and gold livery. He is taken to his room, which is luxurious, and is given a letter from Major von Kessel, the tutor of Duke Joachim. The letter explains that the Major is unable to meet him due to hunting commitments, but that he will be received at a quarter to ten the following morning.
The protagonist then tests his new powers by ringing for his valet, Ludwig. He is unimpressed by Ludwig's appearance, but is pleased with the meal that is laid out for him. He is then given a detailed description of the palace, which is a combination of a Renaissance castle and a Louis Quatorze palace. The description is of the exterior of the palace.