Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
At about ten oclock, when most of those in the church had begun to
think that nothing more would happen that night, a strong guard marched
into the little plaza outside the church and halted there. Hi suddenly
saw a great increase in the light outside, for the newcomers had lit
flares there. The doors of the church were opened and a strong squad of
armed guards entered. A prim-lipped man, with the look of a spoiled
priest, who seemed to be in charge of the guard, gave orders that the
altar should be brought from a side chapel, and placed as a table near
the door. When the altar had been placed, and its candles lighted, he
seated himself upon a chair there, asked for the register of the
prisoners, and began to read it through. From time to time he looked
into the body of the church, where he could see hardly anything, but a
few white faces, the twinkle of the two candles in the nave and the
glistening of some of the gilding. Hi heard two or three of the
prisoners near him praying beneath their breath with the intensity of
terror. He watched the prim-lipped man just as his rabbit had watched
the snake. The man seemed to be waiting for some one who did not come.
Beyond him, Hi could see the dip at the church steps, a market-flare
burning, and moving shadows. The prim-lipped man marked his register
with a pencil.

Say, sport, the American said, stepping up to him, we aint your
nationals. We demand our release or our Consuls.

All the other English-speaking people there, eight in all, joined in, in
this appeal. The prim-lipped man listened to them all with courtesy,
then he said, in English, with an Irish accent:

In the very unsettled state of the city, you are safer here than you
could be elsewhere.

That may be or may not be, but I guess our countries are pretty well
able to protect us. We are unlawfully detained here. Weve been here
pretty well all day. Weve protested, and demanded our Consuls. What are
you going to do about it?

The prim-lipped man listened again. You will understand, he said at
last, that I am not responsible in any way for anything that may have
happened to you in these disorders, nor for your being here now. I am
sincerely sorry that you should have been inconvenienced. I must ask you
to blame the time, and those guilty for the time, not the Republic. In a
few minutes, the commandant of this ward will be here, when I promise
you that your cases shall be heard. In the meantime, let me see each one
of you, who claim not to be of our nation.

The eight came forward to the table in a body, and explained in turn who
and what they were. The prim-lipped man accepted each claim. You will
understand, he said, that in these disorders we have to use every care
to protect those domiciled among us. As the disorders are now over, I do
not think that you will be inconvenienced beyond to-day.

Will you tell us, sir, Hi asked, what exactly has happened here? The
Americans hand pressed His arm.

Happened? the prim-lipped man said. Order has been restored, or is
fast being restored. The Republic has been saved. He looked at the
papers, to see what Hi was charged with, then dismissed the eight to one
side.

Is this man a White? Hi wondered. Are those guards White? They wear
no white upon their uniforms, but neither do they wear any red.
Supposing Don Manuel were suddenly to appear with the commandant: oh,
that would be joy.

Almost immediately after this a carriage drove to the steps of the
church and halted there. Hi heard the guards called to attention and
ordered to salute. The prim-lipped man turned to them.

This is the commandant, he said.

Some footsteps sounded upon the church steps, one of the feet clinked
with spurs. Hi craned forward to see who entered, feeling sure that Don
Manuel would be among the party: something within him told him that he
was there, coming victorious to set his servants free. Oh, Don Manuel,
he thought, if it is only you, I dont think Ill care what happens to
me for ever after.

Three people entered together into the light of the altar candles. The
truth came upon Hi with a stunning of heart and head: these people were
Reds, the Reds had won.

The three who entered were:a big, flashy, free moving, swaggering type
of cavalryman, wearing a scarlet sash across his uniform: the big negro
with the green feather, whom Hi had seen taking the Piranhas horses;
and a woman, who also wore a scarlet sash across her shoulder.

Gee, kid, theres the were-wolf, the American whispered to Hi. Now
therell be blood.

Who is she?


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a sense of foreboding. The point of view is third person limited, focused on Hi's perspective. The tone is one of fear and dread, as Hi anticipates the arrival of the Reds.