Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"Are any others mentioned?"

"It is stated that French gold has been landed at a place near
Arkaig, and here is a warrant to arrest two rebels who have knowledge
of it--one is a boy, Rob Fraser by name, who is acquainted with the
hiding-place of Lord Lovat, and the other is--who do you think?"

"Who indeed, sir?  Lochiel--Cluny...?"

"No, no, who but Muckle John, the most dangerous of them all when
mischief is afoot."

"Muckle John?  But is he not abroad?"

"Abroad--who ever heard of him abroad when there is a head to crack
at home?  They say he is wanted on a charge in the Low Countries."

"A dangerous fellow," said Muckle John severely, "and yet there's a
kind of quality about the man--a bird of passage, Captain Campbell,
and a bonny player on the chanter."

"More a gallows-bird than any other.  He'll whistle a thin enough
tune when the Duke has finished with him.  He lays great stress on
his taking, I can tell ye.  He can spin a yarn, Captain Strange, that
will be worth hearing, I'll be bound.  He and that boy, Rob Fraser,
are in company, as desperate a pair as ever skulk in the heather this
day."

"I take it there is no saying where they lie?"

The other winked very slyly at that.

"The net is closing," he said, "and once the boy is caught, there is
small chance of the other going loose."


In the meantime, Rob was outside, and he wished Muckle John would
come.  Before them was a weary tramp, and already he was tired.  His
eyes shut for a moment--then opened and shut again.  He took to
thinking of his father, and how it fared with Lord Lovat, and so
thinking he fell asleep.

His awakening was rude enough, for before he could open his eyes his
arms were held behind his back, and he was hoisted roughly to his
feet.  The officer, good-humoured no longer, was facing him, while
half a dozen red-coats shut him off from all chance of escape.

And before him stood Ephraim Macaulay.

"Which of you is Captain Strange?" cried Captain Campbell, very red
in the face, and looking back towards his tent as though he awaited
an indignant reply from within.

"I am Captain Strange," replied Macaulay stiffly.

"Then where are your papers?"

"They were stolen by the man who came with his boy, who was sleeping
outside your tent."

"Be careful of your words, sir.  How am I to know that you are what
you say?"

"Perhaps you did not trouble to read the particulars on the passport?"

"No, sir--I admit that I did not."

"Then if you had you would have realized that I am not six foot two
or thereabouts, or travel with a notorious rebel, such as that boy
there.  Also that my name is not--Muckle John."

"MUCKLE JOHN!" shouted the officer, "if what you say is true," he
cried, and breaking off he started running towards the tent and
peered within, then parting the folds, disappeared altogether.  But
an instant later, he was tearing about the camp like a man gone mad.

"He's made off!" he shouted.  "Sound the bugle there, and search the
hills!"  Then plunging into his tent again, he reappeared with his
hat in his hand.

For Muckle John had taken his departure, leaving behind him only a
neat hole in the canvas of the tent, on the side farthest from the
real Captain Strange, whose reputation as a secret agent in the
English service did not warrant for his future safety.  For long the
soldiers searched, but no sign of Muckle John was discovered, and
none had seen him go.

To Rob, however, this was poor comfort, for bound hand and foot and
guarded by two soldiers he passed a miserable night, and when morning
came he was set between a file of soldiers, and the march to Fort
Augustus commenced, where it was rumoured that the Duke of Cumberland
would arrive that day.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of humor. The point of view is third person omniscient.