Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The craft was heeled, a gale of wind blowing, as evidenced by the gray
storm clouds and a sea washing over the bow, and scattered about the
deck were dead men, of the Chinese, Malay, or negro type; but here
consistency ended, for though these men were bareheaded and barefooted,
indicating warm weather, huge icicles hung from the fife rails and
scuttles, while the sea bordering the bow lost the translucency of
water as it reached the deck, taking on the white, glistening effect of
ice, in which some of the bodies were frozen.

Near the foremast, on the weather side, his feet and ankles hidden in
ice, stood a huge negro holding over his head at full length the figure
of a living man, his attitude indicating an intention to hurl him to
the deck. On his dark, evil face, as on the faces of the dead men, was
an expression of terror and pain.

But the face of the living man held over his head showed nothing. I had
not yet painted the face, and that was why I wanted Old Bill, to take
the pose and assume a terrified look. I had painted the others from
my imagination, taking care only to make each one different; but this
living face of a man about to be hurled to death was to be the center
of the picture--to be worked out in detail, with all the high lights. A
grotesque, Dantesque, Doresque, horrible idea for a picture, one might
well think; but its incongruity never struck me as my mind had worked
it out.

Old Bill came on time next morning, and, without looking at the
painting, climbed to a plank I had placed between two easels about
seven feet above the floor. He lay on his side, and at my direction
assumed the pose I wanted--arms and legs outstretched, with fingers
clutching at nothing. In this, he suited me; but when it came to taking
a frightened look, he failed. His wrinkled features went into all sorts
of contortions, and I painted, wiped out, and repainted, again and
again, then gave it up. The world had treated Old Bill too kindly, I
thought, and he could not comprehend fear.

When I had paid him for his time he left, and I painted in the face
from imagination alone--giving it, not the wrinkled look of age, but
youth, strength, and courage, and the terror that comes to youth and
strength and courage when menaced with sudden death. Then, the picture
finished, I sat back and smoked, while a weariness came over me that
soon merged into slumber, from which I was awakened by a knock at the
door. My cold pipe fell from my lips, and I arose to admit my neighbor,
tutor, and critic--the old artist.

"There it is," I said, as I led him to the picture. "Old Bill didn't
help much. He couldn't--"

"Great God, man!" he interrupted. "What are you doing? I thought you
wanted to be original. Have you been through my old drawings?"

"No, I have not," I answered hotly. "What do you mean?"

He did not answer at once. He looked at the picture with eyes that
almost bulged, muttering to himself: "Pango Sam, Wong Fing, Landy
Jim." Then he turned to me, and said excitedly: "Were you on board
that bark?"

I wondered if he had gone crazy, and did not answer.

"No," he said. "It happened before you were born. What manner of man
are you--to see into the past? It is not prophecy. Wait!"

He darted out of my studio and into his own, where I heard him throwing
things about, opening trunks and closets, and talking to himself. I
relighted my pipe, seated myself, and waited, wondering what had upset
him. After a time he returned, much calmer, and holding in one hand a
painting, in the other a small tintype, the faces of which he concealed
from me.

"Our finite minds," he said, as he stood above me, "consider only
what appeals to the five senses. Our subconscious minds consider the
infinite, in which there is neither time, nor space, nor distance. That
mutiny and murder has occurred, is occurring, and will occur. You have
dipped into the infinite, that is all. Look!"

He showed me the painting. It was dusty and dingy, but, with a few
minor exceptions of detail, the exact duplicate of the painting on my
easel!

"I painted this thirty years ago," he said, "and for twenty-five years
it has lain at the bottom of an old trunk. The subject was too grisly
for the market, and I did not try to sell it."

While I stared, open-eyed and open-mouthed, at his picture, and my pipe
went out from my irregular, gasping breathing, he held before me the
tintype. It was the picture of a young man clad in cheap, ready-made
garments--the "store clothes" of the farmer, or the "shore clothes" of
the sailor. And the face was the face that I had conceived for the man
held aloft by the negro in my painting!


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very descriptive, with a focus on the details of the setting and the characters' expressions. The tone is suspenseful and eerie, and the point of view is third person omniscient.