Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
But at the whirl of action, Dusty's hand arrowed into the space between
the lower two buttons of his dress shirt and came out with a snub-nosed
automatic.

The pale slash of Scyth's weapon was blotted out by the flash and
racket of a shot.

Scyth whirled, flinging his weapon against the wall from an
outstretched hand. The thing hit with a crunching sound and Scyth
continued to turn on rubbery legs, sinking and sinking and turning
until he sat heavily on the floor. He sat, stunned, just long enough
to fold his hands over his belly. Then he folded forward over them and
rolled around sidewise as if falling out of his own lap. He half-rolled
and fell a-sprawl on his face. A spread of blood stained the white
carpet.

Dusty looked down at Scyth. He looked from Scyth to the snub-nosed gun
in his hand and swallowed heavily. The gun dropped to the floor with
a muffled thud from nerveless fingers; Dusty looked at Barbara out of
far-away eyes and said, "He--er--I--"

Then he slid to the floor in a dead faint.

Barbara stifled a scream. The whole thing had been lightning-fast, but
she had caught most of it. Scyth had shot first but now he was bleeding
on her carpet. Dusty had shot second and was lying in a dead faint.
Hysteria choked up in her but she drove it back. She wanted to laugh
hysterically. She wanted to let go and slide to the floor and go to
sleep while someone else came in and cleaned up the mess.

Realizing that she could only hold off the rising hysteria until
someone did make a rational move, Barbara reached for and drained the
highball on the bar. She augmented this slug with a muscle-sized hooker
from the bottle. The liquor burned down and helped to iron out her
jittery nerves.

She grabbed the ice-pitcher which was filled now with melted cubes and
a slosh of water. Unceremoniously she poured the cold mess over Dusty's
white face.

Dusty's eyes fluttered and his voice made spluttering noises. "Wha--?"
he fumbled.

"Come off it!" snapped Barbara.

Dusty sat up weakly. He looked around for a moment as if he weren't
quite sure of where he was. Then he caught sight of Scyth and it all
came back to him. He scrambled to his feet and took the bottle from
Barbara's hand. He took a healthy slug himself and then said, "He tried
to--tried to--"

Barbara laughed hysterically. Between gales of half-mad laughter, she
said, "Tried to beat the fastest man--in The Space Patrol--to the draw!"

Dusty slapped her across the face with the flat of his hand. "Shut up!"
he roared. "Shut up and make sense!"

She came out of the hysteria instantly, shrinking back from Dusty with
a hand against the growing redness on her face. "Dusty--don't--"

He shook his head hard. "Sorry. You needed it."

"I know. But he--? Look, Dusty, what do we do now?"

Dusty looked down at the bleeding man. "Cops," he said thickly. "I've
just shot a--" He could not finish; his face was turning green again.

"Cops nothing," snapped Barbara.

"But shooting--"

"Come off it, Dusty. The cops will only delay and investigate and
generally botch things up until it will be two months and a thousand
years from here."

"Cops aren't that stupid."

"Cops aren't stupid at all," she snapped. "They're just smart enough
to insist on knowing all the answers. So tell you what. You go to the
phone and call Lieutenant Yonkers and explain carefully that you've
just shot a Marandanian Marauder in my living room. Tell him you've
collected one of your Great Galactics, only he's defunct. See how far
you'll get!"

Dusty looked at her blankly.

"The first stop will be the bull pen," she went on hotly. "The second
stop is the nut-locker. And the third stop is some unknown star a
thousand years from now while the F.B.I. try to match the guy's
fingerprints. Then you call on me for a witness and that gets us the
front page in big black letters saying: 'Former Hero Shoots Rival In
Leading Lady's Boudoir!' Start thinking right, Dusty Britton. Or," she
added scathingly, "call up one of your writers."


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Dusty Britton shoots and kills Scyth, a Marandanian Marauder, in self-defense. Barbara, Dusty's love interest, tells him that he needs to get rid of the body and not call the police.