Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Even for drowning?" asked Jessie. "Oh! What is that, Amy?"

"It's a boat! It's a boat! Ship ahoy!" shrieked Amy, jumping up and
dancing about, dropping the cup and saucer to smash upon the deck.

"It's a steamboat!" cried Darry Drew, from the deck above.

"Head for it if you can, Bob!" commanded Skipper Pandrick to the
helmsman.

But before they could see what kind of craft the other was, the fog
surrounded them. It wrapped the _Marigold_ around in a thick mantle.
They could not see ten yards from her rail.

"We don't even know if she is looking for us!" exclaimed Dr. Stanley.
"That is too bad--too bad."

"Whistle for it," urged Amy. "Can't we?"

"If we use the little steam left for the whistle, we will have to shut
down the engines," declared Darry.

"This is a fine yacht--I don't think!" scoffed Burd Alling. "And none
of you knows a thing about rescuing this boat and crew but me. Watch me
save the yacht."

He marched forward and began to work the foot-power foghorn vigorously.
Its mournful note (not unlike a cow's lowing, as Jessie had said)
reverberated through the fog. The sound must have carried miles upon
miles.

But it was nearly an hour before they heard any reply. Then the hoarse,
brief blast of a tug whistle came to their ears.

"_Marigold_, ahoy!" shouted a well-known voice across the heaving sea.

"Daddy!" screamed Jessie, springing up and dropping _her_ cup and
saucer, likewise to utter ruin. "It's Daddy Norwood!"

The big tug wallowed nearer. She carried wireless, too, and the
_Marigold's_ company believed, at once, that Jessie's message had been
received aboard the _Pocahontas_.

"But--then--how did Daddy Norwood come aboard of her?" Jessie demanded.

This was not explained until later when the six passengers were taken
aboard the tug and hawsers were passed from the sinking yacht to the
very efficient _Pocahontas_.

"And a pretty penny it will cost, so the skipper says, to get her towed
to port," Darry complained.

"Say!" ejaculated Burd, "suppose she didn't find us at all and we were
paddling around in that boat and on the life raft? _That_ would take
the permanent wave out of your hair, old grouch!"

The girls, however, and Dr. Stanley as well, begged Mr. Norwood to
explain how he had come in search of the _Marigold_ and had arrived so
opportunely.

"Nothing easier," said the lawyer. "When the operator at the lighthouse
station got your message----"

"Oh, bully, Jess! You did it!" cried Amy, breaking in.

"Did you send that message, Jessie?" asked her father. "Well, I am
proud of you. The operator came to the house and told me. Although his
partner was sending the news of your predicament broadcast over the
sea, he told me of the tug lying behind the island, and that it could
be chartered.

"So," explained Mr. Norwood, "I left Drew to fortify the women--and
little Henrietta--and went right over and was rowed out to the
_Pocahontas_ by an old fisherman who said he knew you girls. I believe
he pronounced you 'cleaners,' if you know what that means," laughed the
lawyer.

"Henrietta, by the way, was doing incantations of some sort over the
wind and weather when I left the bungalow. She said 'Spotted Snake'
could bring you all safe home."

"Bless her heart!" exclaimed Jessie.

That afternoon when the tug worked her way carefully into the dock near
the bungalow colony on Station Island, Henrietta was the first person
the returned wanderers saw on the shore to greet them. She was dancing
up and down and screaming something that Jessie and Amy did not catch
until they came off the gangplank. Then they made the incantation out
to be:


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The scene opens with Jessie and Amy discussing the possibility of being rescued by a passing boat. Darry Drew interrupts to announce that there is indeed a boat nearby, and Skipper Pandrick orders the helmsman to head for it. However, before they can reach the other vessel, they are enveloped in fog.
 Jessie's father, Mr. Norwood, explains that he was able to find and charter the tugboat _Pocahontas_ after receiving a message from the operator at the lighthouse station. He and the other passengers are safely towed to port, where they are greeted by Henrietta.