What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The cottage in which widow Cooper had lived ever since the death of
her husband was a very primitive and a very poor one.  It consisted
only of two rooms, what are called in Scotland "a butt and a ben."
Bob had been only a little barefooted boy when his father died, and
probably hardly missed him.  He had been sent regularly to school
before then, but not since, for his mother had been unable to give
him further education.  All their support was the morsel of garden, a
pig or two, and the fowls, coupled with whatever the widow could make
by knitting ribbed stockings for the farmer folks around.  Bob grew
up wild, just as the birds and beasts of the hills and woods do.
While, however, he was still a little mite of a chap, the keepers
even seldom molested him.  It was only natural, they thought, for a
boy to act the part of a squirrel or polecat, and to be acquainted
with every bird's nest and rabbit's burrow within a radius of miles.
When he grew a little older and a trifle bigger they began to warn
him off, and when one day he was met marching away with a cap full of
pheasant's eggs, he received as severe a drubbing as ever a lad got
at the hands of a gamekeeper.

Bob had grown worse instead of better after this.  The keepers became
his sworn enemies, and there was a spice of danger and adventure in
vexing and outwitting them.

Unfortunately, in spite of all his mother said to the contrary, Bob
was firmly impressed with the notion that game of every kind, whether
fur or feather, belonged as much to him as to the gentry who tried to
preserve them.  The fresh air was free; nobody dared to claim the
sunshine.  Then why the wild birds, and the hares and rabbits?

Evil company corrupts good manners.  That is what his copy-book used
to tell him.  But Bob soon learned to laugh at that, and it is no
wonder that as he reached manhood his doings and daring as a poacher
became noted far and near.

He was beyond the control of his mother.  She could only advise him,
read to him, pray for him; but I fear in vain.  Only be it known that
Bob Cooper really loved this mother of his, anomalous though it may
seem.

Well, the keepers had been very harsh with him, and the gentry were
harsh with him, and eke the law itself.  Law indeed!  Why Bob was all
but an outlaw, so intense was his hatred to, and so great his
defiance of the powers that be.

It was strange that what force could not effect, a few soft words
from Branson, and Archie's gift of the hare he had shot on his
birthday, brought about.  Bob Cooper's heart could not have been
wholly adamantine, therefore he began to believe that after all a
game-keeper might be a good fellow, and that there might even exist
gentlefolks whose chief delight was not the oppression of the poor.
He began after that to seek for honest work; but, alas! people looked
askance at him, and he found that the path of virtue was one not
easily regained when once deviated from.

His quondam enemy, however, Branson, spoke many a good word for him,
and Bob was getting on, much to his mother's delight and
thankfulness, when the final and crashing blow fell.

Poor old widow Cooper!  For years and years she had but two comforts
in this world; one was her Bible, and the other--do not smile when I
tell you--was her pipie.

Oh! you know, the poor have not much to make them happy and to cheer
their loneliness, so why begrudge the widow her morsel of tobacco?

In the former she learned to look forward to another and a better
world, far beyond that bit of blue sky she could see at the top of
her chimney on a summer's night--a world where everything would be
bright and joyful, where there would be no vexatious rheumatism, no
age, and neither cold nor care.  From the latter she drew sweet
forgetfulness of present trouble, and happy recollections of bygone
years.

Sitting there by the hearth all alone--her son perhaps away on the
hill--her thoughts used often-times to run away with her.  Once more
she would be young, once again her hair was a bonnie brown, her form
little and graceful, roses mantling in her cheeks, soft light in her
eyes.  And she is wandering through the tasselled broom with David by
her side.  "David!  Heigho!" she would sigh as she shook the ashes
from her pipie.  "Poor David! it seems a long, long time since he
left me for the better land," and the sunlight would stream down the
big, open chimney and fall upon her skinny hands--fall upon the
elfin-like locks that escaped from beneath her cap--fall, too, on the
glittering pages of the Book on her lap like a promise of better
things to come.

Before that sad night, when, while sitting up waiting for her son,
she was startled by the sudden noise of the struggle that commenced
at her door, she thought she had reason to be glad and thankful for
the softening of her hoy's heart.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the character of Bob Cooper and to establish the conflict in the story. The author achieves this by describing Bob's childhood, his relationship with the gamekeepers, and his mother's reaction to his poaching.