Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XXXII


THE CLOUDS BREAK

CANT you do something for this kid? the man asked gruffly.

Ruth took the baby. Hes hungry, she said.

Then wed better be hitting the trail.

Falkner walked to the door and flung it open. He looked out upon a world
of white-blanketed hills. The sun was throwing from them a million
sparkles of light.

Gimme that kid, the outlaw said roughly. We gotta get him down to
breakfast. Here! You take my gun.

Ruth wrapped up the baby warmly and handed him to Falkner. The man broke
trail to the point where the draw struck the road. He looked to the
right, then to the left. Safety lay for him in the mountains; for her
and Rowan, junior, at the Circle Diamond, which was three miles nearer
than Yerbys ranch. The way up the caon would be harder to travel than
the way down. There was a chance that they could not make it through the
snow, even a probability.

Which way? asked Ruth.

He turned to the left toward the Circle Diamond. The heart of the girl
leaped. The convict had put the good of the child before his own.

The day had turned warm, so that before they had travelled half an hour
the snow was beginning to get soft and slushy. The going was heavy. Ruth
was not wearing her heavy, high-laced boots, but the shoes she was
accustomed to use indoors. Soon her stockings were wringing wet and the
bottoms of her skirts were soaked. It was mostly a downhill grade, but
within the hour she was fagged. It cost an effort to drag her foot up
for each step. She did not want to be a quitter, but at last she had to
speak:

I cant go any farther. Leave me here and send the boys to get me. Mrs.
Stovall will look after the baby.

The outlaw stopped. There was grudging admiration in the glance he gave
her.

You can make it. Were through the worst part. Soon well be in the
foothills, and there the snow is real light. After a moment he added:
We aint runnin for a train. Take your time.

He brushed the snow from a rock and told her with a wave of his hand to
sit down. After a few minutes rest she rose and told him she was ready
to try again.

Falkners prediction of a lighter snowfall down in the foothills proved
correct. They rounded a rocky point, which brought them within sight of
the Circle Diamond. The smoke from the house rose straight up in the
brilliant sunshine. It looked very near and close, but the deceptive air
of the Rockies could no longer fool Ruth. They still had two miles to
go. The descent to the valley was very rapid from here, and she could
see that a scant two inches would measure the depth of the snow into
which they were moving.

The young woman sloshed along behind. She was very tired, and her
shoulders sagged from exhaustion. But she set her teeth in a game
resolve to buck up and get through somehow. One after another she tried
the old devices for marking progress. She would pick a mark fifty yards
ahead and vow to reach it, and then would select another goal, and after
it was passed choose a third. Onetwothreefourfive, she counted
her steps to a hundred, began again and checked off a second century,
and so kept on until she had added lap after lap.

They came to the Circle Diamond line fence, crawled between the strands,
and tramped across the back pasture toward the house.

Ruth must by this time have been half asleep. Her feet moved almost of
their own volition, as if by clockwork. She went forward like an
automaton wound up by a set will that had become comatose.

A startled shout brought her back to life abruptly. A man with a raised
rifle was standing near the bunk house. He was covering Falkner.

Swift as a panther, Falkner rid himself gently of the baby and turned to
Ruth. He ripped out a sudden furious oath. She was empty-handed.
Somewhere between the spot where she stood and the line fence the rifle
had slipped unnoticed from her cramped fingers.

The outlaw was trapped.

Throw up your hands! came the curt order.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

A man and woman are walking through the snow, trying to make it to the Circle Diamond ranch. The woman is carrying a baby. They are tired and the going is tough. The man, Falkner, is an outlaw. The woman, Ruth, is the daughter of the owner of the Circle Diamond.
They finally make it to the ranch, but are met by a man with a rifle who is covering Falkner. Falkner is forced to surrender. Ruth has lost the rifle somewhere along the way.