Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Six and a piece.

Youre waiting for him to come in here?

Here or the other places. Can you help me out, Edward?

Fay went back and lifted his bag. He passed close to the inspector, on
his way to the doorway.

I never peach, he said through tight lips. But, if I ever change my
mind, thats the man Ill squeal on first. Good-by, MacPhee.

Fay burst through to the street and the drifting fog. He had acted on
the spur of the moment in speaking to the inspector. The long watch at
the Monica bar was a sample of the work of Scotland Yard. It had once
been a favorite rendezvous of Dutch Gus and his mob. The watch was still
being kept for the German crook who had learned safe-breaking in the
States during the palmy days of the Chicago Drainage Canal. He had
transgressed once too often, in the estimation of Sir Richard Colstrom.

And theyll lag him, said Fay, turning toward the south. MacPhee
never lost a man.

He became thoughtful as he reached Blackfriars Bridge and crossed the
Thames to the Surrey side. He still had three hours before meeting
MacKeenon at London Bridge Station. He had forgotten his intended visit
to Jimmys. The presence of the inspector on watch at the Monica bar
was food for thought. There seemed no way of escaping the nipper grip of
the Yard.

MacKeenon, Sir Richard, MacPhee, Saidee Isaacs, the cipher and the evil
visage of Dutch Gus appeared in the fog as Fay leaned over the Albert
Embankment and stared toward the curtain which blotted out London.
Fingers seemed to reach and clutch for him. Coils were thrown. There was
the south, and Brighton and the Cape boats, for a get-away. The bag with
its gun and surgical instruments could be tossed in the Thames. No man
could catch him, if he chose to exercise caution. The world was wide,
and a new life in another country could be started without suspicion.

He felt in a reflective mood. Belligerency would follow this mood as
certain as the dawn would rise on foggy London. He recalled the ancient
vows of getting square with the police of the world. The five years of
cell lifeof waiting and watchinghad not shaken him from his purpose to
gain a little place in the sun, and there bask with the smiles of those
he cared for and understood.

The cipher mission had not gripped him in the manner it should. He did
not see the great commercial war which was settling upon a torn world.
The factories of London, Manchester, Leeds and the Scotch districts
might be pouring their smoke into the English air in an attempt to stem
the tide of imports from over the North Sea. They were building the last
battlements of a people who would be free. He did not care! Had not
England penned him for five long years in a living hell? Was that
punishment to be forgotten lightly? Was it a reason for falling in with
the plans of Sir Richard and the hounds of the Yard?

He smiled bitterly. He wanted freedom of action. He had the wherewithal
to gain this desire. The money in his pocket, the open road to the south
through Surrey, and a change of costume would effect an escape. There
was no way to prove that the Yard would not send him back to Dartmoor if
he failed in the Holland mission.

He turned away from the stone rail and stared through the gloom to where
arc lights were stretched in an unending row. They shone blurred and
torch-like in the murky air. Beneath them, pedestrians and lorries
moved, like a procession of sad mourners. It was the tide of London folk
pouring home at the days end.

Tapping his heel against the black bag at his feet, he saw from the
corner of his right eye the arched bridges which spanned the Thames.
They, also, were thronged with a dark mass of outpouring humanity.

He seemed alone. He was in the backwater of strife and bustle. An open
space was between his position at the rail and the nearest sidewalk.
This space was shimmered over with damp mist. Across it, flashing
eastward, there passed a smart, black motor car, with a driver bent at
the wheel and a single figure in the tonneau.

Fay heard, as distinctly as if the voice had been at his side, a call
and a warning. It rang in his ears after the car had vanished in the
shadowy street on his left hand. He repeated the words: Look out,
Chester!

Now, who in the devil was that? he asked himself, standing erect and
glancing after the car like a thoroughbred who had scented danger.

The mystery of anyone in London knowing his name or figure, gripped with
strength. He wondered if the voice that struck across the night had been
a guilty tug at his own brain. It could hardly have been real. He
recalled that the car was smaller and of less horse-power than the one
which had brought him up from Dartmoor. It was not the same motor. Nor
had there been H.M.S. plates on its trunk rack.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of paranoia and fear.