Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"I guess there's somethin' coming which will badly bust your railroad
up," he said.  "The big ice rib which holds back the snow-field has
been meltin' fast.  Now she's busted bad, an' before morning the
snow's comin' down.  You heard the beginning of it, but there's lots
more where that come from.  I was up on the peaks after cinnamon
bears when I seen the warnin,' an' just lit out just as quick as I
could.  It will be a snow-slide of the biggest, baddest kind, and I
didn't think it would be healthy to get in its way."

"Where will the worst come?" asked Arthur; and the man answered--

"Right down the hollow where you're buildin' the long snow-shed I
should figure.  Anyhow, it's goin' to be dangerous at that end of the
valley, an' I'm stoppin' right up here.  You can't run up against a
snow slide without getting hurt by it."

"Charley," said Arthur, with hoarse anxiety in his voice, "the lower
end of the snow shed is waiting ready framed for the roof, and the
logs we hewed for it are cut and loaded on the cars.  If the
snow-slide destroyed them we should have to cut others instead, which
would ruin us altogether, and, as it is, we shall hardly make
anything on the contract.  Besides that, this part of the railway on
which so many lives and so much money has been spent would be swept
down over the precipice into the river."

"We must try to save it," broke in Charley, and Arthur continued--

"We are going to, or at least do our very utmost.  Remember, it's our
farm and home we are fighting for.  Come on; we'll find some men to
help us in the construction camp, and perhaps before the snow reaches
it the shed will be finished.  You have got to work as you never
worked before, to-night."

They started, running their hardest, and sometimes stumbling over the
loose ballast among the sleepers.  It rolled and slipped away beneath
their feet.  Charley felt as though his lungs would burst, while the
perspiration which ran into his eyes nearly blinded him, for here the
line, curving, wound up a long ascent.  But, remembering what
depended upon their success, he clenched his hands, and held on
stubbornly, passing his brother on the way, until at last, panting
and breathless, they reached the tents beside a new bridge, to which
most of the workmen had been sent from the snow-sheds.  A great
American locomotive, built to climb steep mountain lines, was waiting
with banked fires before a row of ballast trucks, and when they had
wakened the sleepers, there was a murmur of excited questions as
Arthur told his story.  Some of the men held small contracts on the
railway, and if the line were destroyed would lose their work; the
rest had been unfortunate miners and cattle raisers, but all alike
were fearless, staunch, and sturdy, so when Arthur Gordon had
finished speaking, one of them said--

"The engineer has gone down to the settlement, and the surveyor's
busy at the other end of the track.  Guess we'll have to get there,
and see this through without him ourselves.  Hold on a few minutes;
we're all coming along to do what we can."

Arthur climbed on to the big locomotive--he had learned how to drive
one--and Charley, at his bidding, thrust pine logs into the furnace.
Then several men crowded into the glass-windowed shelter called the
cab, and there was a hail from the trucks--"We're all aboard, and
ready.  Let her go her hardest."

Arthur shoved down the lever, Charley crammed still more fuel into
the twinkling furnace, and with a blast from her funnel and a whirr
of wheels slipping on dew-wet metals, the great mountain locomotive,
which was, perhaps, twice the size of an English express engine,
started on a grim race to beat the avalanche.  The line led winding
down from the snow-barred pass into the valley most of the way, and
when Arthur, who felt the machinery warm up beneath him and knew he
had no time to lose, turned full steam on, the ballast cars commenced
to swing and bounce behind.

[Illustration: "THE GREAT MOUNTAIN LOCOMOTIVE STARTED ON A GRIM RACE
TO BEAT THE AVALANCHE."]

A few shouts rose up from them, through the eddying dust, as the men
who filled them were flung against each other before they could find
hold for feet or hands to steady themselves with.

"You'll be spilling those fellows all over the track," said one of
the men in the cab.

The footplates rocked under his feet, and Charley, who held on by a
guard-rail, could see through the rattling glasses, the great pines
come reeling towards them, an endless maze of flying trees, as the
glare from the head-lamp--which is a huge lantern these engines
carry--beat across them.  They ceased to be separate trunks, for at
that speed the eye could not grasp the spaces between them, and the
whole forest wavered when, because the line was not well ballasted
yet, the big locomotive swung to and fro.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its tense, suspenseful tone. The point of view is from the perspective of the characters in the scene, and the action is described in detail, making it feel as though the reader is right there with them.