Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
What if Esthers features were slightly irregular and her figure too
slight for beauty. No one thought of that after the first half hour of
her acquaintance.

Donald felt his gaze returning repeatedly to that pale, cream-tinted
face, as seated that night near his sister-in-law he listened to the
chatter of the women.

Mrs. McCleary sank into an easy chair, panting and short-breathed from
the exertion of removing her wraps, and turning to Lissa began to talk
volubly.

How very noice ye look, dear! Your hair curls so beautifully. When
Esther was a little girl Oi used to do up her hair on curl-papers for
her, but now she must do it for herself. It is really too much for me.
Alice, Oi see yer not intoirely free from thet cough yet. Ye should
nivver let it run. It moight run ye into consumption. Oive known many a
case to turn out so, hev ye not Miss Lissa? Ye must attind to it. Oi do
wish yed thry some of moi Indian cough surrup. Oi hev a commoonication
from a great Indian docther, advoising it. Mrs. Cloyne, did Oi tell ye
how Georrge was cured of the faver?

All this she uttered without pausing for reply.

Donald glanced at Esther at the mention of curl-papers, but not a tinge
of color dyed the paleness of her cheeks. She was evidently accustomed
to her mothers revelations. George, however, looked a trifle annoyed at
the mention of his name.

Mrs. Clyne took advantage of the womans brief halt for breath to say
that she had never heard the story.

Well, ye see, Georrge, was very ill, so ill wed given him oop ter die,
an Oi was cryin an prayin the great docther ter do sumthing fer him,
whin if yell belave me, the boy reached oop his hand, an in a moment
we saw some leetle black specks lyin in it, lookin fer all the world
like Ayers pills. He held thim so we all saw thim an thin he put thim
in his mouth, an in the shortest toime he was aslape, an frim that
very hour he was better.

What do you think it was? asked Mrs. Clyne.

Why, bless your sowl, what could it be but medicine put in his hand by
some watchful spirit? Ye neednt smoile, Mr. Mark Cramer, nor you, Mr.
Bartram; there were a plenty present wholl swear to what Oi tell ye.
Aint it so, Mr. McCleary?

Yis, yis, the little man mumbled; it is as she says.

They were interrupted by the arrival of Professor Russell, who came
bustling in with Auntie Dearborn, a sprightly, handsome old lady, who
was carrying a huge basket upon her arm, which appeared filled with
manuscripts.

She was most becomingly dressed in black silk, with fine white lace at
wrist and throat, and her pink-tinted face, white hair, mild blue eye
beaming with kindliness, and lips wreathed in smiles, made a beautiful
picture. She had arrived at a sweet old age. Every one liked her,
despite her eccentricities, which some pronounced a mild form of
insanity. Alas, the borderland between sanity and insanity is scarcely
defined, and if good Auntie Dearborn was insane she has many companions
who would scorn such accusations. Who among us does not like to believe
we have an inspired pen?

Auntie was thoroughly imbued with the idea that the spirits of the
departed poets used her hand as the medium for presenting their verses
to the public, and she kept a constant and ever-accumulating supply of
her poetry on hand to read whenever she could find audience.

After shaking hands with Lissa and kissing her most affectionately, the
old lady said in a stage whisper:

You see, my dear, I have brought along some o my poetry, for I knowd
you would want to hear it, because Ive really been inspired by the
great Byron himself this week. It is most remarkable.

Lissa smiled kindly.

Thank you, Auntie. I shall be glad to hear it, I am sure, and so,
perhaps, will others here. You will stay with me to-night of course?

Well, now really, dearieit would be very pleasant and youre drefful
kind to ask me, but you see theres Natty, poor dog, shut up in his
kennel, wholl howl all night if I dont come back, and the chickens
will have to be fed in the morning

Here she was interrupted by the announcement of the Professor that if
they were ready the company would form themselves into a circle about
the room, as he saw several spirit forms impatient to communicate with
their friends.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The tone of this scene is light and humorous. The point of view is third person omniscient.