Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
XXIII

THE HOUSE OF THE FOUR MEN

Of the travelling of Rob to the south there is little enough to tell
until he reached Rannoch, the country of Robertsons and Stewarts, and
other clans more like to pick a pocket than to cry God-speed.

On the evening following the departure of Muckle John, Rob had
bartered with a pedlar upon the road for a suit of old clothes, and
too fearful of the future to refuse the exorbitant price demanded, he
gave him some silver and buried his kilt in a mountain pool.

And so, with more confidence, he stepped out towards the south, and
reached Loch Linnhe without misadventure.  It was his intention to
avoid all the district about Fort William by taking boat to the other
side.

In this manner he passed through Glencoe and travelling by day,
reached the head of Loch Rannoch in a dusk of drizzling rain.

Now the country that includes Rannoch, Lochaber and Breadalbane had
no rival for insubordination in those days.  It swarmed with broken
men--cattle thieves and desperadoes of all kinds owning fealty to
none but their own good pleasure, and only Jacobite so far as it was
politic to be, and with an unsleeping eye to the plunder of the
Lowlands.

It was with anxious steps, therefore, that Rob approached a solitary
huddle of buildings lying in a snug hollow of the hills, thatched to
the colour of the brown trees, with here and there a patch of young
heather over the top of it.  It was strangely hidden and quiet, with
all the look of an old inn fallen on evil days.

For long Rob stared at it with dubious eyes; there was so little life
about it, and so much that was mysteriously ominous.  Though drenched
with the thin hill rain, craving for food and shelter, he was in a
half mind to continue his way, when the face of a man looked through
the small hole in the side that served for a window--a green-white
face it was, with staring unwavering eyes.

But where there was a living soul there would be food and shelter and
Rob stepped forward, forgetting his secret fear.  Inside the place,
however, there was no sound, but only the monotonous dripping of
water upon the muddy floor.  In the centre of the room there hung a
great pot upon a chain from the roof, and the place was so full of
peat reek that it took him a few minutes to see where the man had
gone.

Against the wall were layers of rushes, and a narrow stairway led up
to a kind of loft about six feet above the floor.  Under the loft
were the cows.  He could hear them coughing fitfully through the
wooden partition.

It was a poor enough place and leaking from a score of holes, but it
was warm, and so tired was he that he sat down before the peats and
warmed his hands.

Presently the door opened and the man re-entered.  Rob wondered how
he had managed to come that way.  He started when he saw Rob, but
wished him good-day civilly enough and inquired if he could provide
him with anything.  He was a sallow, secretive looking fellow, with a
tangled beard and hair and a terrible squint.

"You are passing south maybe," he said, busying himself about the
place.

With some uneasiness Rob replied that he was journeying to Edinburgh
seeking employment.

"It is a Stewart you will be?" remarked the man, squinting terribly.

"No," said Rob, "I am a Fraser."

"A Fraser," he echoed, "I take it you can pay your way."

"I can that," said Rob with some indignation for fear he should be
sent back into the rain, and with a foolish notion that the man might
be of assistance he drew out a dozen silver coins and clinked them in
his open hand.

In the blue smoke of the place the man paused.  He stood perfectly
still with his ghastly squint accentuated.  Then putting some meat
into the pot he set the lid on, and going to the door spoke to some
one outside.  This he did so casually that Rob suspected nothing, but
sat dozing before the warm glow, utterly spent and stupid with
fatigue.

It must have been about eight of the clock that he finished his
supper, and asked to be shown to a place to sleep.  This the
innkeeper did very readily, lighting him up the narrow stairway into
the loft and pointing to a heap of dry heather in a corner.  Out in
the night the rain was falling dismally and below him Rob could hear
the warm and comfortable breathing of the cows.  Yet, tired though he
was, a curious dread of falling asleep came on him.  There was
something about the place that set his nerves on edge.  Was it the
eerie silence of it--lost amongst the lonely elbow of the loch?  But
that was nothing new to him.  Was it the strange catlike movements of
the man with the squint?  But he was probably a decent enough
creature unused to strangers.  Or was there danger lurking in the
place, memories of dreadful things done there in the black darkness?
His hand instinctively sought the dirk at his side.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Rob: a young man, recently arrived in the south of Scotland from the Highlands. He is seeking employment in Edinburgh.
2. The man with the squint: the innkeeper, a sallow, secretive-looking fellow with a tangled beard and hair. He seems to be hiding something.
3. Muckle John: Rob's companion, a large, burly man from the Highlands.
4. The pedlar: a man Rob met on the road, from whom he bought a suit of old clothes.