Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
You know, Mr. Bulstrode, she said, Mr. Blair is really a very fine
scholar. He was quite a distinguished Latinist when he was at William
and Mary.

Bulstrode sniffed openly at Blairs scholarship and William and Mary.

Then he ought to teach your boy, maam. I swear, Mrs. Blair, it addles
my brain sometimes when I see the beauty and splendour of the passion
you women bestow on your husbands and children.

Mrs. Blairs face flushed a little, and a beautiful angry light burned
in her eyes, as it always did at the slightest implication that Blair
was not perfect.

Luckily for me, she said, with a little arrogant air, my husband and
children are worthy of it. All that I know of unworthy husbands and
children is about other womens husbands and children.

Yes, yes, eagerly assented Bulstrode, and then went off again on the
subject of his grievances about Miles Lightfoot and the races, and even
that Lewis Pryor was getting too fond of the stables and stayed there
too much, and he meant to speak to Skelton about it.

Bulstrode left Mr. and Mrs. Blair under the impression that there was
some queer complication connected with the late Mrs. Skeltons money,
with which they were mixed up, and it gave rise naturally to much
speculation on their part.

They talked it over a great deal, but they had nothing positive to go
upon. Elizabeth, womanlike, tried to dismiss it from her mind, and
the more so when she saw that Blair was deeply pondering it. At all
events, Skelton would keep his own until his death, for neither of them
believed he would marry again; and as he was not quite forty--some
years younger than Blair himself--it was idle to think too much about
what was so far in the future.

Bulstrode was as good as his word about Lewis Pryor, and the very next
day made his complaint about Lewis to Skelton.

Send him to me, said Skelton briefly.

In due time Lewis stood before Skelton in the library, through whose
diamond-paned windows the woods and fields glowed beautifully under the
red December sun. Skelton began in his calm, reasonable voice:

Lewis, Mr. Bulstrode tells me that you spend most of your time with
Yellow Jack and the stablemen, instead of at your books. How is this?

Because, sir, answered Lewis, I am very fond of horses, and Im not
doing any harm down at the stables.

Skelton turned and faced the boy, whose tone was perfectly respectful,
but it was that of one disposed to argue the point. As Lewiss eyes
met his, Skelton was struck by their beauty--they were so deeply, so
beautifully black, and the very same idea came into Lewiss mind--What
black, black eyes Mr. Skelton has!

Skeltons memory went back twenty-five years. How wonderfully like was
the little scamps coolness to his own in the bygone days, when old Tom
Shapleigh would come over to rail and bluster at him!

At present, continued Skelton, smiling a little, horses and horse
racing cannot take up a great deal of your time. It is your business to
fit yourself for your manhood. You have every advantage for acquiring
the education of a gentleman. Bulstrode, with all his faults, is the
best-educated man I ever met; and, besides, it is my wish, my command,
that you shall be studious.

But, Mr. Skelton, said Lewis, with strange composure, and as if
asking a simple question, while I know you are very generous to me,
why do you command me? Mr. Bulstrode is my guardian.

The boys audacity and the shock of finding that his mind had begun
to dwell on his status at Deerchase, completely staggered Skelton.
Moreover, Lewiss composure was so inflexible, his eyes so indomitable,
that he all at once seemed to reach the mental stature of a man.
Skelton was entirely at a loss how to answer him, and for a moment the
two pairs of black eyes, so wonderfully alike, met in an earnest gaze.

I cannot explain that to you now, answered Skelton after a little
pause; but I think you will see for yourself that at Deerchase I must
be obeyed. Now, in regard to your continual presence at the stables, it
must stop. I do not forbid you to go, altogether, but you must go much
less than you have been doing, and you must pay more attention to your
studies. You may go.

Lewis went out and Skelton returned to his books. But he was strangely
shaken. That night he said to Bulstrode, after Lewis had gone to bed:

What promise there is in the boy! I dont mean promise of genius--God
forbid! he will write no Voices of the People at nineteen--but of great
firmness of character and clearness of intellect.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its formal, objective tone. The point of view is third person omniscient, and the author does not reveal any of the characters' thoughts or feelings directly. Instead, the reader is given insight into the characters through their dialogue and actions.