Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
A large circle with an emerald in the form of a star, set in gold.

It is strange thou shouldst see that, said she, after a moments
silence. The involuntary workings of the human mind and the connection
of its dreams with certain past deeds, perchance, include providential
mysteries. The science of these inexplicable things belongs only to the
One who knows the cause and the reason for everything. The hand that
thou thinkest thou dost behold exists only in thine imagination. What is
left of me in the tomb would fill thee with horror; but it may be that
thou seest me such as I was on earth. Tell me how I appear to thee?

I know not what enthusiastic picture I drew of her. She seemed to listen
with attention and said:

If I resemble this statue, that should not surprise thee for I acted as
its model. Thus thou bringest back to my mind the memory of what I once
was, and even the jewels thou dost describe, I remember having worn. The
ring thou thinkest thou dost see I lost in a room that I occupied in
this chateau. It fell between two stones under the hearth. I intended to
have had the stone raised on the next day, but I died that very day.
Shouldst thou search for it thou mayst perchance find it. In that case,
I give it to thee as a souvenir of me and of the oath thou hast sworn to
obey me. Behold, the day breaks, farewell!

This farewell caused me the most acute pain I had ever experienced and I
came near rushing forward once more to seize this shadowy enchantress,
for by degrees I had approached near enough to be within reach of the
hem of her garment, had I dared to touch it, but I had not the courage.
It is true, I had forgotten the threats of the legend against those who
attempted this profanation. I was only held back, powerless, by a
superstitious respect, but a cry of despair broke from my heart and
vibrated even amid the marine shells, held by the tritons of the
fountain. The shadow paused as if withheld by pity.

What more dost thou desire? said she. Day approaches and I cannot
remain.

Why not, if such is thy will?

I am forbidden to again behold the sun of this earth. I dwell in the
eternal light of a more beautiful world.

Take me with thee to that world. I no longer wish to live in this. I
will not remain here I swear, if I must never see thee more.

Thou shalt see me again, have no fear, said she. Await till thou art
worthy and until then, summon me not. I forbid thee. I will watch over
thee like an invisible providence, and when thy soul is as pure as a ray
of morning, I will then appear to thee, simply on the appeal of thy
pious desire. Submit!

Submit! repeated a solemn voice that resounded at my right. I turned
and beheld one of the phantoms I had already seen in my room, at the
time of the first apparition.

Submit! repeated a voice exactly similar, like an echo, at my left,
and I beheld the second ghost.

I was not at all affected by this, although there was something
terrifying in the height of these two spectres and in the deep tones of
their voices. But what cared I for the terrible things I might see or
hear? Nothing could snatch me from the ecstasy in which I was plunged. I
did not even stop to look at these accessory shadows; my eyes sought my
celestial beauty. Alas! she had disappeared, and I no longer beheld
aught save the motionless naiad of the fountain, with its passionless
pose and its cold tones of marble rendered blue by the first rays of
morning.

I know not what became of the sisters; I did not see them disappear. I
went around and around the fountain like a madman. I thought I was
sleeping and I grew bewildered in the confusion of my ideas, hoping that
I would not awake.

But I remembered the promised ring, and went up to my room, where I
found Baptiste, who spoke to me without my being able to gather the
meaning of his words. He appeared worried, perhaps on account of my
expression, but I never thought of questioning him. I looked at the
hearth and soon observed two disconnected stones, which I endeavored to
raise, but it was too difficult an undertaking without the necessary
tools.

Baptiste probably thought me mad, and mechanically endeavoring to aid
me

Has monsieur lost anything? said he.

Yes, I let one of my rings fall here yesterday.

A ring! Monsieur has no rings, I have never seen him wear one.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very dreamlike and romantic. The narrator is very enamored with the woman he sees, and he describes her in very flowery language. The tone is very longing and wistful, and the point of view is first person.