Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
"Fallon!" snapped McCauley. "You're wanted! Return to the ship
immediately!"

A clanking sound came from all the loud-speakers inside the ship. Then
Fallon's voice.

"Wait a minute." He panted as if doing some heavy labor where there was
no weight. "Ah-h-h! Right! What do you want?"

"I want you back in the ship," said McCauley sternly.

More clankings. They were the type of sound that might be heard inside
an air-filled space suit and picked up by its helmet microphone.

"What are you doing?" demanded McCauley.

"I'm fixing ... uh!..." The last was a grunt. "I'm fixing a way to
settle something.... I'm set now."

"Fallon!" barked McCauley. "Come to the ship immediately! That's an
order!"

"I'm busy," said Fallon's voice, defiantly. "But I'll tell you
something! I'm not going back to Earth with the rest of you. I was on
the run when I passed myself off as somebody else and got on the ship.
I was on the run from Death Row in the pen. They had me ready for the
hot seat in two days more, and I got away. Why should I go back to
Earth?"

He paused. And then he said, his tone indescribable:

"Everybody is hearing me. I fixed that! I doctored the aerial switch so
when it's turned on it can't be turned off again! McCauley can't keep
you from hearing me now, because he called me! And McCauley's going to
squirm now! I joined up with him to wipe out every one of you, so we
could go back to Earth with the atom fuel to sell to contacts he's got!
He tried to kill Soames and he tried to kill Hathaway! He tried to kill
me today, by getting me lost, but the rest of you jumped to help me and
he had to join in so you wouldn't know what he'd tried!"

McCauley winced.

"Poor fool!" Randy said.

"Now listen," said Fallon's voice fiercely. "I've told you the truth.
If I'd told you before you wouldn't've believed me. But you're going to
believe me now, because I've scrapped my chance of living--it wasn't
good anyhow--to tell you! You watch McCauley! Send word back to Earth
of what I've told you. He'll not dare to do a thing when a dying man's
accused him--and that's what I am!"

"Fallon!" barked McCauley again. "It's a mistake! You thought I planned
that stuff, and I was just playing along with you! The others knew all
about it! They knew everything you just told them! It's a lie! I'm not
planning anything. I just played along with you...."

"Yes?" jeered Fallon. "Tell that to the aviators! The spacemen don't
believe you!" Then he said: "So what? I'll be the first man on Mars!
I'm Joe Fallon, 4272365, Walla Walla Penitentiary, and I'll go down in
the history books. I'm taking off for Mars. Want to race?"

There was a sudden roaring. It was the sound of a rocket blast,
conducted by metal to a space suit and picked up by the microphone
inside.

"T-taking off," gasped Fallon, outside. "You get this story back to
Earth and he won't dare do anything! He won't dare! But I didn't rat on
him! Only on what he was going to do."

After that, there was only the roar of the rocket blast.

They poured out of the ship in space suits as fast as the air lock
would let them. Perhaps some of them had a faint, faint hope that it
was merely a joke. But it wasn't. There were boxes and bales floating
heavily, soggily, in the emptiness about Eros. They had been thrust
aside when Fallon took the rocket for himself. And he was gone.

McCauley made an irresolute movement back toward the ship, and Randy
said quickly, via space phone:

"No use, Ed! We can't make more than six gees acceleration in the ship,
and in a loadless rocket he'll make twelve! We can't catch him!"

And there'd be nothing they could do if they did catch him. McCauley
ground his teeth, staring at the star-filled sky.

"I did something wrong," he said bitterly. "Something wrong! But what
would have been the right thing?"

Hathaway said enviously:


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-McCauley: the leader of the group, he is a stern and unforgiving man
-Fallon: a criminal on the run from the law, he joins McCauley's group in order to escape justice
-Randy: a member of McCauley's group, he is level-headed and reasonable
-Soames: another member of McCauley's group, he is killed by McCauley
-Hathaway: the last member of McCauley's group, he is envious of Fallon