What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
There, my dear, she said to Torialli who stood near her, is our
grand Pauline.

Torialli came forward briskly. He by no means relished Paulines
behaviour to Flaubert, and his bow to Jean was of the stiffest and
shortest. Madame Torialli, however, looked at Jean with a flash of
sympathy; her eyes seemed to say: Be patient; I know you have talent;
you shall soon have an opportunity of showing it.

She was the most wholly graceful woman Jean had ever seen; it was as
if she had bloomed all her life in some summer garden and had learned
the secret poise of a flower and the easy hoverings of a butterfly.
If she came up to a difficulty it melted away; if she looked at an
embarrassment it vanished.

Torialli, on the other hand, was made of a stouter and harder
substance; he was a big man with a bald head and heavy eyebrows, under
which the eyes sprang, round balls of vigorous fire. He was full of
feeling, irritable and impatient, easily depressed and warm-hearted.
Much of his original nature and some of the real strength of his genius
had been weakened by the easiness of his success. It had fallen upon
him--his success--in mid-career, blunting his finest faculties and
developing at a fierce rate his vanity and greed. The artist and the
business instinct still struggled violently at times, but for the most
part the business instinct had won.

Perhaps Madame had helped it to win. She adored artists much as Delilah
adored the strength of Samson, but like Delilah she took the earliest
opportunity of delivering Torialli to the Philistines.

Now, Mademoiselle, said Torialli, not without an undertone of malice.
We will see how the holidays have improved your voice. It ought to be
as eager to get out as a well-bred hunter kept a week in the stable. We
will begin, please, with the air of Herodiade, Prophte bien aim.
Monsieur, you will conduct Mademoiselle to the piano. Gabrielle, do you
remain?

Madame Torialli smiled at Jean.

If Pauline and Monsieur DUcelles permit, she said modestly, sailing
into one of the stalls. I am not a critic, Monsieur, merely a lover!

There is no person so exacting as a lover! ventured Jean in an
undertone.

What a discovery! cried Gabrielle, and she laughed with a spontaneous
infectious gaiety, in which even Torialli joined.

Now, Gabrielle, no jokes! he said warningly. We are here to work.
_Commencez_, Mademoiselle!

Pauline rose to the occasion magnificently; she was never afraid of
herself; but she had the incentive of a desire to shine more in some
company than in others. She always wished to impress the Toriallis, and
to-day she wished to make them feel that they had made a mistake in
passing her over for Hester Lvi. Jean played faultlessly. He did not
desire to shine and he had quite forgotten Torialli and Pauline, but
he had not forgotten that he was playing to a lover of music, and he
played to satisfy her and please the child that had smiled at him out
of Gabrielles eyes.

Paulines voice was hard, tuneless, and without emotion; it was a good
organ, and it had been well trained. Like all her other acquisitions
she had done the best she could with it, and for want of something
better, which can never be done to anything, it yet failed to please.

To-day she took her notes with deliberate skill and threw into their
rendering a dramatic force which she had never shown before; and so
interweaving with her voice that it almost seemed one being, Jean gave
the velvet and tenderness, the fire and magic of the music in his heart
and under his flying finger-tips.

Torialli leaned back in his seat with drawn brows and seemed to be
listening with his small light eyes as well as with his ears. He hardly
spoke at all during the performance; once or twice he called to Pauline
to repeat a phrase, but he made no comment till the end. Then he sprang
from his seat, rushed across the stage, and flinging his arms round
Jean, embraced him on both cheeks.

But my dear young man! my good young man! You have music in your
fingers, but it is there, I tell you, the real thing we are working
for, and listening for, and trying to drag out all day long! And you
kept it up, you kept it up! You got into her big brass voice and made
it yield up gold! You must come and play for us! Gabrielle, arrange
something this instant! I cannot afford to lose sight of such an
excellent talent!

Fortunately, perhaps, Pauline could not follow Toriallis rapid French;
she only understood enough of it to know that Jean had succeeded; and
she knew that she herself had never sung so well before.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Pauline and Jean, and to set up the conflict between them. The author achieves this by showing the different ways in which they react to the praise of Torialli. Pauline is eager to impress the Toriallis and to make them feel that they have made a mistake in passing her over for Hester Lvi. Jean, on the other hand, is more interested in pleasing Gabrielle, the "lover of music." This difference in motivation will create tension between the two characters and drive the plot forward.