Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
III

_Old Planet_


When Marn had gone, Carlin lay down wearily on the lumpy, sagging bed.
He closed his eyes. The reaction to the long, slow voyage had set in.
No doubt about it, he was star-sick all right. Time was when no voyage
could have made him feel like this.

But it wasn't the voyage so much as this world to which he had been
condemned. How was he going to live here for months, for a whole year
maybe?

The sound of an angry voice came up dimly through the twilight, from
the lower floor of the house. He recognized Harb Land's angry tones.

"--if Control Operations finds out what we're doing!"

There was a murmur of lower voices, and then the argument seemed to
stop. Carlin remembered what he had overheard the red-faced Loesser
saying at the spaceport.

What were these Earthmen doing that they were so secretive about? It
must be something against the laws by which Control Council governed
the galaxy, or they would not fear discovery by Control Operations.

When Carlin went down to dinner, he expected open hostility from the
gangling older brother. But Harb Land muttered a curt greeting, his
half-civil manner indicating his angry protests had been overridden.

Carlin stared dismayedly at the food set before them. Instead of the
clear, colored synthetic jellies and liquids he was used to, the food
was served in what seemed barbarically primitive state. Cooked whole
vegetables, natural eggs, natural milk--everything rawly natural.

He ate what he could, which was little. His weariness was drugging him,
and Harb Land's smothered hostility gave a sense of strain.

Gramp Land carried on most of the conversation, questioning Carlin
about the far-away star-worlds. Carlin answered wearily.

"Saw a lot of them worlds myself once," the old man said. He added
proudly, "Following space runs in my family. My mother was a direct
descendant of Gorham Johnson himself."

"Gorham Johnson?" Carlin asked. "Who was he?"

The question was unfortunate.

"What do they teach out in your star-world schools?" Gramp exploded.
"Don't you know that Gorham Johnson was the first man ever to travel
space? That he was an Earthman, who took off from down in the valley
here two thousand years ago?"

Gramp's pride was outraged. Carlin remembered the old galaxy
proverb--"Proud as an Earthman." They were all like that, inordinately
vain of the fact that their world's people had first conquered space.

"Sorry," he said tiredly. "I remember the name now. Anyway, I had too
much cosmic physics to study to spend much time on ancient history."

Gramp still spluttered, but Jonny intervened, questioning Carlin on his
work.

"Did you study sub-atomics or just straight dynamics?"

"Sub-atomics," Carlin answered. And, to another question, "Yes, I had
electronic mechanics too."

He caught the swift, triumphant glance that Jonny Land shot at his
brother. It puzzled him.

"Jonny knows all that stuff," boasted Gramp, his good humor restored.
"He's a Cosmic Engineer graduate from Canopus University, too."

Laird Carlin was genuinely surprised. He looked at the quiet,
thin-faced youngster.

"You're a Canopus graduate? Why the devil is a man of your training
wasting your time here on Earth?"

"I just like Earth," Jonny answered evenly, "and wanted to come back
here when my education was finished."

"Oh, sure." Carlin nodded. "But if this world is as outworn as it
looks, there's no field here for a CE. You ought to be out at Algol."

"You star-world people are all the same--always advising us to leave
Earth!" Harb Land interrupted with suppressed passion. "That's what
Control Council keeps harping on as a solution to all our poverty and
problems. They keep asking, 'Why don't you emigrate to other stars?'"


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Carlin: protagonist, star-sick, from a far-away star-world, not used to natural food
-Harb Land: older brother, hostile, gangly
-Gramp Land: proud, old man, Gramp is short for Grandfather
-Jonny Land: younger brother, quiet, thin-faced, a Cosmic Engineer graduate from Canopus University