Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
V

Guarded Words


Sadly enough, however, it was Gus Tripp who was the storm center.
This thing had been the only blot on his escutcheon during the three
years he had worked for the X Bar X. Willingly would Mr. Manley have
wiped it clean had Gus given him the opportunity. But the die was
cast. Gus--he of the drawling speech and eyes which were wont to
grow languid while Norine was near--had gone.

No one gave much thought to Joe Marino, The Pup. Though he had
worked for Bardwell Manley, somehow he had never become a part of
the ranch, as the rest had. He was a man apart, neither seeking nor
admitting intimate friendship. His fondness for the cup, alleged to
cheer, was early discovered, but Mr. Manley was loath to discharge a
man for a personal defect so long as it did not affect his work. Up
to this time The Pup had been a lone drinker, but now, when it
became necessary to send him forth because he shirked his job, he
dragged one of the most popular boys on the ranch with him.

Pop Burns was loud in his denunciation of the tempter. While the
boys were saddling their broncos the next morning, preparing to head
for Whirlpool River, the old man halted The Pup as he was lurching
past toward the cook house.

You still eatin here? he wanted to know.

I am. Anything to you? The Pups eyes, red from the effect of the
last nights indiscretion, glared evilly. Want to ask any more
questions?

Well, now, maybe jest one or two, the veteran puncher said slowly.
First, whered Gus duck to?

How should I know? Think Im his keeper?

Keeper? Not any! I thought you pretended to be his friend, but I
guess I was mistaken. Usually, when a man tells a fellow certain
things, that other man kind of likes to keep track of his buddy.

Hey? What do you mean--certain things? I dont know nothin about
Gus. He rode with me a few times, thats all. The Pup leered
suggestively. If you mean the letter he was waitin for from that
skirt down Togas way, why--

Pop Burns expression changed. His eyes narrowed, and the lines
about his mouth deepened. His hands clenched until they looked like
solid balls of brown leather.

Suppose you just forget about that, he said evenly, an unwonted
dignity coming into the old mans voice and manner. Understand? We
aint in the habit of talkin out in public about another mans
affairs. Gus was a friend of mine, I aint aimin to listen to a
coyote like you makin fun of him. Get me?

The Pup started to reply, then took a second look at Pops face, and
thought better of it. With an uneasy laugh he turned away and walked
toward the corral, where his pony was tied. Pop motioned to Teddy,
who was filling a can of flour some distance away.

Hear that?

Teddy nodded.

Some of it. I didnt want to interfere, so I kept quiet. Dad wants
The Pup off the place as soon as possible. He blames him for the
whole affair.

Yore dads right about that, Teddy. The Pup has got a streak of
orneriness in him a yard wide. He aint no good to no one, least of
all himself. Wouldnt be surprised if we saw some more of him, at
that, one way or another.

You mean hell make trouble?

Well, he aint appeared to be a dove of peace so far, has he? Pop
countered. An hell not hang his tail between his laigs an run
without one more nip at somebody. You mark my words! I knew them
kind of waddies. Long ago, when yore grandpop was alive--an yore
dad was only a shaver then, like you are--we had a cuss by the name
of-- He broke off suddenly. All right, boss! Comin! Pop called
out, and he hurried off in response to Mr. Manleys call.

Teddy watched him disappear in the direction of the ranch house,
then reflectively continued packing the can with flour. But as he
worked with his hands, a frown came to his face. He was remembering
Pops prophecy.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Gus Tripp: the storm center, drawling speech, eyes that grow languid near Norine
2. Joe Marino (The Pup): never became a part of the ranch, lone drinker, now dragging another boy down with him
3. Pop Burns: old puncher, denounces The Pup, friends with Gus
4. Teddy: son of Pop Burns, filling a can of flour, listening to Pop's story