Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Hi woke up suddenly into terror, for the forest was filled with a crying
as of creatures gone mad. A pack of things was giving tongue with voices
madder than a foxs bark.

Wild dogs gone mad, he thought. The noise of the yap seemed to strike
between the skull and the coats of the brain, as the idea of the weasel
strikes into the brain of the rabbit. Hi jumped to the horse, who was
already trembling. He cast loose the tethering rope and swung himself on
to the beasts bare back, gripping the headstall, and in an instant the
horse was away with him, in a panic which Rosas himself could not have
controlled. Horse and man fled like the bird knocked from roost in the
night. What did the bags and the saddle matter while that crying filled
the darkness?

Oh, golly, what are those things? he thought. Oh, golly, if they are
after us. All the night seemed full of flaming eyes, but these were
only fireflies, not a pack: the crying seemed to die away. The horse
floundered through mud in a cane-brake, which crashed under his
trampling. Hi dug his head into the horses neck and shut his eyes: it
was like running the gauntlet for what seemed a long time. After it, he
went through tall grass, which drenched him with dew. Hi felt him
weakening beneath him as he came out of the grass: then suddenly water
appeared before him as a lake or broad river, where the wind roused
reflections of stars. Hi saw a fish leap and splash, shaking up a
glittering; in an instant the horse was swimming, with the gleams all
round him.

Hi knew that a very little thing would drown the horse in his present
condition; he slipped off his back, slid sideways, caught his tail and
swam with him. After about fifty yards, the horse put his feet down,
stumbled on to his knees, but recovered and came to the bank. Hi with
some trouble scrambled up in front of him, got a purchase on the reins,
and helped him on to dry land. They stood there gasping together for a
while, being both out of breath as well as very cold.

O Lord, Hi thought, what on earth were those things? Ive never heard
anything so awful. Thank God, we got away when we did. A very little
more, and they would have been on us. I think I should go mad if they
were coming after me. Listen.

There was no sound of any pack in cry coming after them. They had come
to a part of the wilderness which was silent, save for the rustle of the
reeds and the splash of the leaping fish. I suppose its going to rain
again, Hi muttered with chattering teeth; that is why the fish are
leaping. I wish Id brought my coat and the saddle.

But they were left behind with the bags in a place which Hi was little
likely to find again. Lord, I do feel wretched, he said, shivering.
Ill get away from this water. There may be alligators in it. I never
thought of them before. Come up, old Bingo; well find a place for you.

They moved away through a thicket into a space which had been burnt the
year before. From the cold and from the colour of the sky, Hi judged
that it was about an hour from the dawn. The horse stopped from
exhaustion. Youre sicker than I am, Hi said. Ill do my best to warm
you.

He pulled grass: the horse would not touch it, but it served to rub him:
he was trembling, his coat was staring, and his head was down. Id give
something for a bucket of warm beer for him, Hi said. Its hateful
having nothing: even the bread is gone. Well, I must hope for the sun to
come soon to warm him.

The cold was so painful that he had to move away, to dance and flog his
arms. The dawn seemed to take hours to bring any colour to the sky, yet
it came at last.

Thank God, here it comes at last, he said. If only I could hear a
bell with it: even a cow-bell.

It came with no sound of bells, but with a clapping of wings from all
the near-by trees, as the multitudes of the birds awoke. Their cries
were not sweet like the cries of so many English birds: only one seemed
to have a sweetness in his voice. This was a biggish bird with black
wings and orange breast. He had a sweet droning note which said, Woe,
then, after an interval, Woe again. All the other birds seemed to be
saying, Damn it: or so Hi thought.

As the light grew, the clamour of the birds rose to a roaring, for many
of them, after trying their wings, took flight, wheeled, and sped away
in their companies, to seek for food. Some of those who cried Woe
settled on a tree which was covered with great white waxy flowers,
intolerably sweet. Wafts of the sweetness came to Hi on the gusts of the
wind. He saw them tear at the flowers and eat the petals. Hi, going to
the tree, tasted a petal, thinking that what fed the birds could not
harm himself. It was like sweetened church candle or much what he had
imagined manna to have been. He ate of this manna with the knowledge
that he, too, had been fed in the wilderness. When he returned to his
horse, he found him stretched out dead.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Hi wakes up suddenly to the sound of wild dogs crying in the forest. He jumps on his horse and they flee in terror. The horse eventually becomes exhausted and they have to stop. Hi tries to warm the horse up but he dies. Hi then tries to warm himself up and wait for the sun to rise. When it does, he is greeted by the sound of birds and the smell of sweet flowers. He finds a tree covered in white flowers and eats some of the petals. He feels better and goes back to his horse, only to find that it is dead.