Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
John watched him. The pipe filled, and the pouch replaced, Father
Maloney still fumbled at his pockets. It would appear that something
was missing.

Matches! said John. And cautiously he heaved himself to his feet.
Softly he advanced some steps, came to a line directly behind the old
priest, then marched boldly forward.

Can I be of any use? John held out a box towards him.

Father Maloney looked up surprised.

Im much obliged. Where did you appear from?

From over there. John waved his hand in a backward and non-committal
direction. I saw you intended lighting your pipe, but your intentions
were being frustrated.

Cant think how I forgot them, said Father Maloney pulling at his
pipe.

John dropped on to the ground beside him.

What a view! he announced in a pleasantly conversational tone. And
what a day!

It is that indeed, returned Father Maloney cheerfully.

John hugged himself inwardly.

Hes got the hang of things again, brave old fellow! he ejaculated
mentally. But Id give a very great deal to know the veritable
standpoint of affairs.

Aloud he said. Am I right in imagining that you are the chaplain of
Delancey Castle?

I am, said Father Maloney. What made you think so?

Well, said John airily, one does not expect to see a superabundance
of priests in a Protestant country, and when it comes to a minute spot
such as this, where you happen to know there is one priest,--well, when
you see him, you imagine hes the one, concluded John explicitly.

Father Maloneys eyes twinkled.

Under the circumstances, as stated by you, the inference might be
drawn, quoth he.

And then followed a little silence. Both men were looking towards
Delancey Castle, and it may be pretty safely conjectured that the
thoughts of both were occupied by that same Castle.

John, if the truth be known, was longing--fervently longing--that the
old priest should give voice to that matter, which, he was fully aware,
was uppermost in their minds. For him to broach the subject would, he
feared, savour too strongly of impertinence on the part of a complete
stranger. Yet it is very certain that, without any undue curiosity on
his part, he desired intensely to know the actual rights of the case,
to arrive at the veritable truth of the rumour which had twice reached
his ears.

Now whether Johns desire was sufficiently intense to communicate
itself to Father Maloney, or whether it was that the subject which
so absorbed the old priests mind was bound to find an outlet in
speech, you may settle as best pleases you. For my part, I have no
definite opinion to offer on the matter, though I sway slightly in
favour of the latter conclusion. When every nook and cranny of the
mind is filled with a thought which increases in volume the more it is
absorbed, there comes a point when an outlet in speech is practically
a necessity, and, to my thinking, this point had been reached in the
present case of Father Maloneys mind. Also it is quite possible that
he recognized the silent and unobtrusive sympathy of John. Certain it
is that he began to speak.

I suppose youll have heard the news of yonder Castle? he asked,
pulling at his pipe.

Ive heard rumours, acquiesced John, which I devoutly trusted were
nothing more.

I trusted that myself, said Father Maloney grimly. But the truth of
them is clinched now, and thats a fact.

Ah! said John quietly. And then, Would you tell me the story? I
should like to hear it, if you wouldnt mind telling it.

Not at all, since youd be caring to hear it But its a longish tale,
and a bit complicated at that. It might be boring you.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Father Maloney and John are talking about the rumors that Delancey Castle is going to be demolished. Father Maloney is the chaplain of the castle, and he confirms that the rumors are true. He tells John the story of how the castle came to be in its current state.