Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
III

THE END OF THE JACOBITE CAUSE

The position of Prince Charlie in Inverness was exceedingly critical.
To the north lay the forces of Lord Loudon.  To the east and south
were the Hanoverian army commanded by the Duke of Cumberland now
stationed at Aberdeen.  But his position was rendered even more
precarious by lack of foresight in ignoring the advice of Lord George
Murray, and refusing to provide a supply of provision in the
Highlands.

Judging that the Duke would not advance for some weeks, the Prince
decided on the reduction of various forts and positions held by the
enemy, and above all the destruction of Lord Loudon's army.

It was arranged, therefore, that Lord Cromartie (one of those
incompetent officers who handicapped the Jacobite cause) should
advance upon Lord Loudon in order that the menace from the north
might be destroyed, and this, he prepared to do, accompanied by the
Mackenzies, the Mackintoshes, Macgregors and others.

The preparations for this expedition were under discussion when
Muckle John and Rob came into the main street.  For a while they
walked along in silence, Muckle John grown suddenly gravely absorbed,
and taking such great strides that Rob was hard put to it to keep up.
The dawn was come, and with it the town of Inverness began to hum and
buzz like a hive of bees.  Men, quartered in every house along the
narrow street, commenced to pour out upon the highway, some putting
on their sword-belts as they came, others wiping sleep out of their
tired eyes with their knuckled hands.

It was the sight of their claymores that sent Muckle John's
flickering eyes upon his companion.

"My lad," said he, stopping abruptly, "there's one thing we must be
seeing too.  For cutting firewood or driving bestial,* I have no
doubt yon weapon might serve as well as another, but for the game of
war it is disappointing," and whipping out his own sword he made a
parry or two, and winked at him.


* Cattle.


"What do ye think o' that?" said he, and drove it home again into the
scabbard.

"I think it's bonny," said Rob shivering with the chill wind.

"Bonny--you Fraser loon--what kind of word is that for the sword of
Muckle John," and without a word, he turned his back and began to
stride again up the street, snorting as he went.

"But, sir," cried Rob, at his heels, "what about me?"

"You," cried Muckle John in a huff, "what indeed?"

"I know nothing of swords," said Rob, anxious to appease him at all
costs.

Presently Muckle John stopped and looked, first upon the ground and
then at Rob, and so upon the ground again.

"Rob," said he at last, "had ye no better take your ways home?"

"Never!" cried he.

Without a word the other turned upon his heel, again, and so in a
dour silence they reached the centre of the town.

"Rob," said Muckle John, "you see that house there?  That is where
the Prince is staying, and there at the door he is, and with him Lord
George Murray, a braw soldier but no Irish, and so not above
suspicion."

On the door-step stood Prince Charlie talking in a vexed, irritated
manner to a very choleric-looking gentleman, who seemed in a bubble
of anger, which he could ill control.

"Come ye with me, Rob," said Muckle John, "and keep your eyes open,
and your mouth as tight as a gravestone."

As they approached, the Prince let his eyes rest on the massive
figure of Muckle John, then nodded absently like a man whose thoughts
are far away.  Lord George Murray, on the other hand, greeted him
with some cordiality, and turning again to the Prince, continued his
conversation.

"I can assure your Highness that no aid will come from France," he
said, "Fitzjames is captured, and that is not the last of it...."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very formal and stiff. The dialogue is stilted and the characters seem to be very uncomfortable with each other. There is a sense of tension and foreboding throughout the scene.