Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
III.

THE ROCK NYMPH.


The sight of the horseman in that lonely place excited a strange
commotion. Hardly had the young officer uttered his involuntary
exclamation, when the three hounds set up a loud baying, and came
leaping toward him, the black bear waddled after them, while the timid
fawns bounded away into the forest in great alarm.

The girl herself, who seemed to be the mistress of this menagerie,
turned toward the stranger with the port of the goddess to whom he
had compared her. In truth, she resembled nothing so much as a living
statue of Diana, for she wore the same short tunic and buskins, and
carried the bow and quiver of the patroness of hunting. Her figure and
face, with the simple antique knot in which her hair was arranged,
confirmed the likeness; and when she hastily fitted an arrow to the
bow she carried, it seemed to the young soldier as if he had indeed
insulted the privacy of some supernatural being.

Most men in his position would have either turned to flee or made some
motion of defense. Not so the hussar.

He remained sitting on his horse, in spite of the menacing appearance
of the bloodhounds, without moving a muscle; and the dogs, as soon as
they closed in, justified his course, by ceasing to bay, while they
ran inquisitively round, snuffing at the horses legs, now and then
uttering a low growl, but offering no actual violence. The black bear
likewise became peaceable, halting at a little distance and sitting up
on its haunches, surveying the intruder with a comical air of wisdom.

The girl who had been disturbed, observing the passive attitude of the
hussar, hesitated a moment, and finally advanced toward him, with the
same haughty and insulted aspect however.

As she came closer, and her eyes ran over the face and equipments of
the intruder, the severity of her glance insensibly relaxed. It was
not in female nature to look cross at such a dashing young cavalier.
He on his part, surveyed her with increasing admiration, as he beheld
her purely Grecian face with its frame of golden hair, lighted by great
solemn blue eyes.

The girl was the first to speak, in a tone of displeasure.

Do you know where you are, sir? she asked. What made you venture
where all men shun to go?

Fairest Diana, began the hussar, half wondering if he were not
dreaming.

The girl interrupted him with an expression of surprise.

How? You know my name?

How could I mistake it? said the hussar, with great adroitness. The
beauty of Diana is famous the world over, and I am the humblest of her
worshipers.

The girl looked at him in amazement. She could not see that the
accomplished man of the world was but taking advantage of a lucky
accident, to feel his way into her confidence, by a mingling of truth
and falsehood in his manner.

Then who are you that knows me so well? she asked, artlessly. I
never thought human creature would come nigh our cottage, and you say
it is famous.

For my name, said the hussar, smiling, you may call me Captain
Schuyler, if you will. If you would like a shorter name and a
pleasanter one, call me Adrian.

Adrian is a pretty name, said the girl, smiling with the frank,
fearless innocence that distinguished her every action. Adrian and
Diana are both beautiful.

Diana is beautiful, said the hussar, meaningly; how beautiful no one
knows but me.

Diana looked up at him inquiringly. Then something seemed to inform her
of his meaning, for she flushed hotly and drew herself up with sudden
haughtiness, asking:

What brought you here? Do you not know that it is death to intrude on
this mountain? Even the wild Indian shuns it.

I have heard that a demon haunts it, said the hussar, boldly; but I
never dreamed that it wore such a shape as yours.

At the bold words of the intruder Diana turned pale, and looked
apprehensively around her, saying in low tones:


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its tone, which is at once flirtatious and respectful, as well as by its point of view, which is from the perspective of the hussar. Additionally, the language is somewhat formal, befitting the setting of an encounter between a gentleman and a lady.