Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
This done, I took in a ballast load of guano, and, ten years from the
time of my departure, sailed for the Golden Gate and home. I wanted to
see that girl again, married or single.

It must have been intuition, for I arrived at San Francisco just before
the date fixed for her marriage to Dartmoor. I saw him first, and it
was he who told me. He was worn out with his unsolved problem, and
about to abandon it.

There had been something lacking in his life, he said--something that
lessened his powers, but now he had found it--the love of woman. He had
awakened to the fact that he loved Miss Ewing, had always loved her,
and was rejoiced to know that she had always loved him.

They were to be married in a week. His living dead man would then take
second place in his thoughts, and perhaps new thoughts would come.

It was sad news for me, but I gritted my teeth and congratulated him.

"You're right," I said grimly. "A few years more of this business and
no woman would have you. You look hunted. Your hair is turning."

"Yes," he sighed, "I'm getting gray and old. Perhaps, as you once said,
it is too much of a task for one man. I have tried every scientific
appliance, but I have not stirred a single sense perception.

"And I am being interfered with. A local society for the prevention of
cruelty to children is getting active. I am charged with inhumanity,
and in danger of arrest at any time. Why, he could not live a week
without the care I am giving him."

"Why not let the society have him? Get him off your mind. Do you expect
your wife to be happy with that monstrosity between you? Give it up,
Dartmoor."

"I cannot. It is my life's work."

"Then you'd better take him down to my island, where I am the law and
the lawmaker. Otherwise your life will be short and your wife a young
widow."

I had made the suggestion at haphazard, but he became interested at
once, asked me all about my pearl fishery, and the gang of coolies who
obeyed me as a king, and said he would think it over. I left him then;
and believing that even as a rejected lover I had a right to see my old
sweetheart once in ten years, I called upon her.

It is hard for a man roughened as I have become to describe that girl;
so I shall not try, except to say that all sense of fair play left me,
and that I had not been in her presence five minutes before I was down
on my knees, begging to be taken back.

I almost gained my point. There were tears in her eyes, and her hand
trembled as I held it. She admitted that Dartmoor's long neglect had
lessened his value in her eyes, now that she had won him. But he had
done nothing culpable; her promise was given, and he seemed fond of
her, and in need of her.

"Confound Dartmoor and his need of you!" I growled. "I need you more.
He has his man-baby and his science. You will be second. You would be
first with me, Ella. Give him up--for me."

She shook her head slowly, and more slowly, while I held tightly to her
little hand. Then the doorbell rang, and we heard Dartmoor's voice.

"Curse him!" I cried hotly. "Ella, I won't have it. I won't give you up
to him. I'm a man now, not a bewildered boy."

He came in before she could reply. He must have seen something out of
the way in our faces, for he said jocularly:

"Talking about me, I'll wager. I wondered what made my ears burn. Do
you know," he said, "that there is a scientific basis for that old
fancy?"

As he took it scientifically and good-humoredly, I let it go; besides,
as I remembered later, my anger had left me.

"Captain," he said seriously, "I have a proposition for you--that you
take me and my phenomenon, with my attendants and apparatus, down to
your island, where, I presume, we will be undisturbed. When I am alone
with him I wish to try some experiments that I have long contemplated,
but which have been interfered with by the people of this city. I will
assume all expenses."

"Come along," I answered graciously. "I won't come within a mile of
you, and the coolies will avoid you both."

"And, Ella," he said, turning to the girl he thought he loved, "it will
necessitate a postponement of our wedding for a while. I cannot take
you down into the South Pacific on an uncertainty. You will not mind, I
know; we have waited long, and can wait a little longer. You agree with
me, do you not, captain?"


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the protagonist, Captain, telling Dartmoor that he is sad to hear that Dartmoor and Miss Ewing are getting married. He recalls when he was in love with her and how he had left her ten years ago to go explore. Captain tells Dartmoor that he is getting old and that his hair is turning gray. Dartmoor says that he is being interfered with by a local society for the prevention of cruelty to children and that he is in danger of arrest. Captain tells Dartmoor to take his living dead man to his island where he is the law and the lawmaker. Dartmoor is interested and asks Captain about his pearl fishery and the gang of coolies who obey him. Captain then goes to see Miss Ewing. He tells her that he is still in love with her and that Dartmoor is only marrying her because he needs her. Miss Ewing almost agrees to leave Dartmoor, but then Dartmoor comes in. He tells them that he has a proposition for Captain to take him and his living dead man to the island. He also says that he will need to postpone the wedding.