Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Teddy recalled the long knife with which Marino had attacked him,
and the boy could not repress an involuntary shudder. Suppose The
Pup, fired with liquor, should return some night and seek entrance
to the ranch house? The men would be some three hundred yards away
in their own sleeping shack. Could they--could Nick--hear a call?

Unconsciously the boys muscles tightened and he drove his paddle in
more forcibly, sending a shower of spray over his brother, who was
seated on the bottom of the canoe behind him.

Hey, take it easy! Roy yelled. He brushed the water from the back
of his neck and demanded: Why so strong all of a sudden, Teddy?

Just thinking, Teddy murmured. Roy got a side view of his
brothers face as the boy turned his body at the end of the stroke,
and the older lad frowned. Was Teddy getting the willies now?
There must have been some reason for those set lines around the
mouth and those tiny knots of muscle just above the jaw bone. Roy
knew his brother well enough to be sure that the younger lads
thoughts were reflected in his face as though it were a mirror.

Whats on your mind, boy? Roy asked softly.

Nothing--yes there is, too! Teddy burst out. He ceased from his
labor and rested the dripping paddle on the bow of the canoe. Im
worried about mother and Belle and the others. Where do you suppose
The Pup is now?

Headin for the Border, an goin strong! Bug Eye interrupted.
That waddy wont let no grass grow under his feet. Hes afraid he
might be pushin it up a little later if he does. Yore dad aint got
much use fer sneak thieves an rustlers.

You mean he wouldnt stay in this part of the country? Teddy asked
eagerly.

Not a chance, Roy answered. Is there, Pop? Dont you think The
Pup will head south and try to make the Border?

Thats my idea of it, the veteran said decidedly. He mopped the
top of his shiny head with a huge red handkerchief. This is some
hot work! Yep, I reckon Marino is pretty scarce around here now.
Why, Teddy? Why was you askin? Hopin to run acrost him?

Not any, the boy said shortly, resuming his paddling. But--well,
you know how I got this. He drew from his belt the knife he had
forced from The Pups hand when he had met him near the corral. At
the last moment, impelled by a motive he himself could not explain,
the boy had brought the weapon with him. Now he turned it over and
gazed at the initials burned in the handle. The man who carries one
of these is the kind you need eyes in the back of your head to
watch. And I was afraid he might come back to the ranch some night,
loaded and sore. Nick might not be handy. I wish--

Teddy, believe me, theres not a chance in the world of that, Roy
said earnestly. He sat up straighter, and twisted around so he could
see his brother. You know how I feel about those things. In fact, I
guess youve laughed at me plenty for being an old maid. But in this
instance, Im not worried. There are five men left to take care of
the place. I told Nick to let the work ride till we came back, and
to stick close to the ranch house. I told him if Belle or Ethel or
Nell go riding, to be sure to have a man or two trail along. Theres
to be a guard awake through the night, wandering around the place.
Hell sleep in the day time. Didnt know all that, did you? and Roy
laughed.

Well, to tell the truth, he went on, I didnt want to be kidded
about it, so I kept it quiet. But now that I see youve got the
fever yourself, and Roy grinned again, Ill relieve your mind.

And believe me, you have! Teddy exclaimed fervently. Roy, if ever
I kid you again about being too careful, just remind me of this!
Baby! You know, as I was paddling along there, it struck me all of a
sudden. Like a cold shower! I started to think, what if The Pup
comes back and all the boys are out of reach? And golly, I began to
get the fidgets! I didnt want to tell you, because I know when you
start to worry you sure do a good job of it. But, by jingo, you did
your worrying ahead of time, which is the right way. Woosh! I feel
better. Funny how you get nervous all of a sudden like that, isnt
it? All right, Pop, lets go! Now we can consider the cattle--and
well have plenty to think about there, let me tell you! Come on,
Pop! Hit it up! _One_, two, three, four! _One_, two, three, four!
Yay! Look at her travel!

The shore slid by rapidly, and the water started to boil under the
bow of the canoe. Pop, in the stern, wrinkled his face into a grin.
Did this youngster think he could turn the boat on him? The old
puncher dug his paddle deep into the water, and his shoulders moved
rhythmically. Teddy was hard pushed to keep up with the old man, so
powerful were the veterans strokes, and as the current was swifter
here, the boat seemed fairly to skim over the water, heavy as it
was.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is characterized by its informal tone and use of colloquial language. The point of view is from Teddy's perspective, and the reader gets a sense of his nervousness and anxiety about The Pup potentially returning to the ranch.