Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Haven't you ever heard of him? He was the elder brother of the present
Grand Duke. He died a few years ago, two, if I remember rightly."

"So it was his death which gave the succession to the Grand Duke
Frederick Augustus?"

"Not directly. The constitution of Lautenburg-Detmold is peculiar. The
Salic Law does not apply, and the ducal crown, on the Grand Duke's
death, passed to his wife, the Grand Duchess Aurora Anna Eleanor."

"So she has married her brother-in-law?"

"Quite so, and thus it happens that in the absence of children of the
Grand Duke Rudolph, your future pupil, Duke Joachim, son of the Grand
Duke Frederick and some German countess, is now the heir presumptive to
the State of Lautenburg-Detmold. To alter the situation the marriage of
his father with the Grand Duchess Aurora would have to be honoured with
a bond, a thing which seems most improbable."

"I seem to remember something about it now," I said. "Wasn't there a
German Grand Duke who died in Africa--the Congo--while engaged in
geographical research two or three years ago?"

"Precisely," replied M. Thierry. "That was the Grand Duke Rudolph. He
was always an enthusiastic geographer. His travels could not, it is
true, be described as altogether unpolitical. When I remember that a few
months later we had Agadir and the loss of the Congo, I can't help
thinking that the Grand Duke of Lautenburg had been sent to accomplish
some mission on behalf of his august cousin, the Kaiser. It is true he
hadn't much time in which to effect his purpose as he died in the Congo
shortly after his arrival. It would be interesting...."

"But what is there in all this, sir," I broke in, "that in any way
accounts for the solicitude you've just shown on my behalf?"

He seemed put out.

"My dear boy," he said, with an obvious effort. "A historian's plain
duty is to accept as fact only what he has been able to verify. From
that point of view I confess that my knowledge is confined to vague
rumours barely susceptible of proof. Certain reports, an allusion or
two, and last--but not least--certain details communicated to me some
time back by a friend whose name I must withhold--that's all. I should
perhaps add the proverb that there is no smoke without fire."

"Couldn't you be a little more precise as to the purport of the
rumours?"

"Will you promise you will keep this entirely to yourself?" he said.

"I give you my word."

"I am told that violent deaths are not unknown at the Court of
Lautenburg-Detmold."

My curiosity reached fever-heat.

"What does that mean?" I asked.

"Unfortunately, or rather, fortunately, nothing definite. Still, we
can't ignore the fact that two persons stood between Duke Frederick
Augustus and the crown."

"But the Grand Duke Rudolph died of sunstroke in the Congo," I said. "It
was reported in the press."

"Agreed. That was a natural death all right, but apparently the same
cannot be said of the death of Countess von Tepwitz--the present Duke's
first wife and the mother of Duke Joachim."

"Do you mean that the Grand Duke was responsible for her death?"

"The Grand Duke Frederick Augustus is a very extraordinary man,"
continued M. Thierry, "able, well-educated, but a master of dissembling.
Is he playing for his own hand? Or for that of the King of Wrtemberg,
his immediate suzerain? Or, indeed, for the Kaiser? I have studied this
question from the point of view of German high politics. It isn't a
simple one. Frederick Augustus is a man of ambition, and I don't think
he would stop at anything."

"Anyhow," I said, "his calculations have had to take account of the
Grand Duchess Aurora. Her consent to marry him was an essential factor."

M. Thierry smiled.

"They might have been in collusion. I admit I don't know that side of
the question. In fact, I know nothing of the Grand Duchess except her
age," he said, taking up the blue and gold book again, "her Christian
names--Aurora--Anna--Eleanor; her Russian origin, and that she was a
Tumene princess. The Tumenes are the most powerful family in the
Government of Astrakhan. Has she acted in collusion with the present
Grand Duke? It is possible. You know as well as I that reasons of state
sometimes dictate marriages, but, as I said, I know nothing about her."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

M. Thierry is discussing the recent death of the Grand Duke Rudolph of Lautenburg-Detmold with a young man who is considering taking a teaching position in the duchy. He tells the young man that the duchy is ruled by a peculiar set of laws, and that on the death of the Grand Duke, the crown passed to his wife, the Grand Duchess Aurora Anna Eleanor. This means that she is now married to her brother-in-law, the new Grand Duke Frederick Augustus.
M. Thierry goes on to say that there have been rumours of violent deaths at the Court of Lautenburg-Detmold, and that he has been told that the Grand Duke Frederick Augustus is a very extraordinary man who is capable of dissembling. He suggests that the Grand Duke may have been responsible for the death of his first wife, Countess von Tepwitz, and that he is a man of ambition who would not stop at anything.
The young man is intrigued by this information and asks M. Thierry to tell him more. M. Thierry says that he does not know much about the Grand Duchess, except for her age, Christian names, Russian origin, and that she was a Tumene princess. He says that it is possible that she is in collusion with the Grand Duke, but he does not know for sure.