Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
Saidee Isaacs stood by the door which led to the hallway. The little old
man crept to her side and waited for Sir Richard to speak. Fay leaned
against the corner of the long table and rubbed his wrist.

You double-crossed me! he exclaimed bitterly. You said I could go to
Holland scot-free, and youve had every Scotch inspector in the Yard
after me. How do you expect to get results if you do that?

Yeshow does he expect it? said Saidee Isaacs.

Sir Richard stared from the girl to Fay. He brought his lower lip over
his upper one. His eyes were curtained by his furrowed brows. His
right-hand fingers toyed with a watch-charm which hung from a heavy gold
chain.

Turning suddenly, he moved a chair behind the table, sat down, leaned
back, thrust his thumbs in the arm-holes of his silk-lined vest and
nodded toward the door.

MacKeenon closed the door, locked it and came back to Fays side. He
passed the key toward Sir Richard, who motioned for him to lay it on the
table.

Now that everybody has had their say, said the chief, with an icy
glitter in his eyes. Now that they have, he continued, I suppose its
my turn.

Fay, what did you do with the package you got from the safe?

The question was shot directly at the cracksman. It was phrased so that
there was no possible evasion.

It was a long minute before Fay answered. He laid both palms on the
table and leaned toward Sir Richard as he said:

What did I do with itwhy, I threw it away!

Sir Richard flushed hotly. He half rose from his chair. His thumbs came
out of the arm-pits of his vest. He grasped the edge of the table and
tilted his chair forward.

Threw it away! What did you do that for? You got it and then threw it
away?

Yes, I got it, Fay said between rigid lips. I got what those German
bunglers gotwhat Dutch Gus was after. I got the package and threw it
into the North Sea. You sent me on a wild-goose chaseif ever there was
one.

Hows that?

How! Why, damn it man, Im no fool! Here I go after a strong-box, find
that the outer door and the day door is ripped wide-open by a bunch of
blacksmiths, beat them to the keister and get the package you sent me
foronly to find that the package contains a cheap pair of
smoked-glasses! A shilling pair, if ever there was one!

Fay paused and stood erect. He whipped off his cap and, turning, glanced
at Saidee Isaacs. She stepped forward and nodded confirmation. Fay went
on:

Youve been badly gulled, Sir Richard! Mononsonburg, whose name was on
the package, must have left the smoked-glasses at the embassy, and the
report got to your people, as well as to the Germans, that it was the
key to the cipher. Im through with the whole mess! Send me back to
Dartmoor!

Smoked-glasses? repeated Sir Richard, rising and leaning over the
table with his finger pointing like a gun at Fay.

Yessmoked-glasses! An ordinary pair of ordinary glasses!

And you threw them away?

Ask her, said Fay, turning to the girl.

The chief of the investigation bureau sat back, thrust his thumbs in his
vest-holes, and whistled slowly. He closed his pursed lips and glared
across the polished table. Inch by inch his eyes raised to the
cracksman. For the first time since leaving the prison, Fay felt the
grip of fear. There was that in the manhunters eyes to warn him of
coming danger.

He stepped back and away from the table. He came full into the level
squint of MacKeenons eyes. The air of the great room grew tense with
things about to happen.

Saidee Isaacs gripped Fays sleeve with a pressure of confidence.

Tell him everything, she said in a low whisper.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Fay, a cracksman, has been double-crossed by Sir Richard, who has sent every Scotch inspector in the Yard after him. When confronted, Fay reveals that he threw the package containing a pair of smoked-glasses into the North Sea. Sir Richard is furious, but the girl Saidee Isaacs tells Fay to tell him everything.