What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Roy, who had given up his place and paddle to Pop and was seated in
the bottom facing front, saw ahead of him that the banks of the
stream were coming together--closing in. It had been long since he
and Teddy had come over this route, and the landmarks were
unfamiliar. But he knew that just below the point where the shores
converged were the rapids.

The river seemed to take on new strength now. The soft purr was
developing into a roar, and Teddy, remembering the last time they
had heard that, hunched his shoulders. But this sound was different,
somehow, from the boiling of the stream after the storm. That had
been an unwholesome noise, as though the river had suddenly taken
upon itself an evil accomplishment, whereas the deep thunder that
came to Teddys ears from the rapids below was the voice of a giant
who is proud of his strength and who gives fair warning to any one
who contests his supremacy.

Feel it pull? Pop Burns asked excitedly, as they came nearer and
nearer the rapids. Wait till we hit the worst part! Youll know
yore in somethin then, let me tell yuh!

Teddy and Roy were too absorbed in the spectacle to answer. Directly
before them a curtain of spray arose like a white cloud, pierced now
and then by a jet of water that leaped upward like a silver fish. A
cold haze hung over the boat--penetrating, knife-like--that sent the
blood tingling through the veins. All four were leaning forward now,
waiting, ready.

Left! Pop yelled, and Bug Eye shifted his paddle swiftly.
Steady--steady--_Take it!_

The canoe plunged into the maelstrom. About them the waters tumbled
and tossed in an agony of movement. The craft shot forward like an
arrow from a bow.

Yay! Teddy yelled, his eyes alight with a fierce joy. Lets go!

Roy was too fascinated to exclaim. He sat perfectly still, gripping
the sides of the boat, his head thrown back, his lips smiling.
_This_ was life!

A deep whirlpool lay directly in their path. Teddy saw that it was
spinning with incredible rapidity, and thought that if they hit it
destruction was certain. He turned to Pop to sound a warning.

But the veteran had seen it. Not an inch did he swerve from his
course. For a moment the boat hung on the edge, poised for a dive.
Then it leaped.

Straight into the heart of that silver-lined, foaming vortex it
shot.

Right Pop yelled, and Bug Eye shifted again.

There was a space of time, seemingly interminable, when the boat
appeared to stand still while the waters whirled beneath it. Then a
quick lurch--and the whirlpool was left behind.

Stunned by the suddenness of it, Teddy jerked his head around. The
whirlpool was far in the rear. They had been in and out in less than
a second.

Pop! the boy called above the roaring, what happened?

Nothin much, Pop chuckled. We just took it at the right time,
thats all. It tossed us out. Like it?

Certainly did! Teddy cried enthusiastically. Hit em again, Pop!

They came now to a place where the stream undulated like a huge
white snake. There were hills and valleys of water; smooth, shining
water. It seemed that the rocks over which the river was flowing
were just beneath the surface--that they must surely crush them to
pieces. Teddy saw that Pops face lost none of its calmness, so he
settled himself once more with an attempt at serenity which deceived
no one. Just what in thunder _was_ keeping them from all going to
the bottom?

The craft was tossing like a ship on the ocean. First the bow would
almost bury itself in a smother of foam, then it would lift until it
seemed that it must turn over backward. Bug Eye wrapped his legs
firmly about the seat.

Roller coaster! he shouted, and went down again, nearly out of
sight.

My Fishmobile-- he began when once more he rose straight in the
air, but at that moment they came to an especially deep pool and the
words froze on his lips. Teddy watched him with amusement and saw
that when he was level again Bug Eye had a wild look about him.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the characters' excitement as they navigate the rapids. The author achieves this by describing the river in detail and the characters' reactions to it.