What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
VI
SAKU THE NIPON

Hungry and thirsty, Red Lightning and I set off up the canyon away from
the sea, presently entering the first side-canyon[3] bearing in a
northerly direction, for it was my desire to pass through these
mountains in the hope of finding a valley running east and west, which I
could follow back in the direction of my people.

-----

[3] Probably Rustic Canyon, which enters Santa Monica Canyon a short
distance above the sea.

-----

We had proceeded only a short distance up the side-canyon when I
discovered a spring of pure water and around it an abundance of fine
pasture, and a moment later Red Lightning and I were drinking avidly
from the same pool. Then I removed his saddle and bridle and turned him
loose to browse upon the lush grasses, while I removed my clothing and
bathed my body, which was, by now, sorely in need of it. I felt much
refreshed and could I have found food should soon have been myself
again; but without bow and arrows my chances seemed slight unless I were
to take the time to construct a snare and wait for prey. This, however,
I had no mind to do, since I argued that sooner or later I must run
across human habitation, where, unless greatly outnumbered by armed men,
I would obtain food.

For an hour I permitted Red Lightning to line his belly with nutritious
grasses and then I called him to me, re-saddled, and was on my way again
up the wooded, winding canyon, following a well-marked trail in which
constantly appeared the spoor of coyote, wolf, hellhound, deer and lion,
as well as the tracks of domestic animals and the sandaled feet of
slaves; but I saw no signs of shod horses to indicate the presence of
Kalkars. The imprints of sandals might mark only the passage of native
hunters, or they might lead to a hidden camp. It was this that I hoped.

I had wound upward for perhaps two or three miles when I came suddenly
upon a little open meadow and the realization of my wish, for there
stood three of the pointed tents of slaves consisting of a number of
poles leaning inward and lashed together at the top, the whole covered
by a crazy patchwork consisting of the skins of animals sewn together.
These tents, however, were peculiar, in that they were very small.

As I came in sight of the camp I was discovered by a horde of scrawny
curs that came bristling and yapping toward me, apprising their masters
of the presence of a stranger. A head appeared in the opening of one of
the tents and was as quickly withdrawn. I called aloud that I would
speak with their chief and then I waited through a full minute of
silence. Receiving no reply I called again, more peremptorily, for I am
not accustomed to waiting long for obedience.

This time I received a reply. Go away, Kalkar, cried a mans voice.
This is our country. Go away or we will kill you.

But I am not a Kalkar. I have but just escaped them and I have been
long without food. I wish food and then I will go on, for I am in search
of my own people who are fighting the Kalkars at the edge of their great
camp to the east.

He stuck his head through the flap then and eyed me closely. His face
was small and much wrinkled, and he had a great shock of stiff, black
hair that stuck out in all directions and was not confined by any band.
I thought that he must still be sitting or squatting upon the ground, so
low was his head, but a moment later, when, evidently having decided to
investigate my claims more closely, he parted the flap and stepped out
of the tent, I was startled to see a man little more than three feet
tall standing before me. He was stark naked and carried a bow in one
hand and several arrows in the other. At first I thought he might be a
child, but his old and wrinkled face, as well as the well-developed
muscles moving beneath his brown skin, belied that.

Behind him came two other men of about the same height and
simultaneously from the other two tents appeared six or eight more of
these diminutive warriors. They formed a semicircle about me, their
weapons in readiness.

From what country do you come? demanded the little chief.

I pointed toward the east. From the desert beyond your farthest
mountains, I replied.

He shook his head. We have never been beyond our own hills, he said.

It was most difficult to understand him, though I am familiar with the
dialects of a score of tribes and the mongrel tongue that is employed by
both the Kalkars and ourselves to communicate with the natives, yet we
managed to make ourselves understood to one another.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the reader to the main character, Red Lightning, and to establish the setting. The author also establishes the conflict in this scene, which is between the Kalkars and the native people.