Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Could he, too, be on this island? Hopefully, Roy threw back his head
and called loudly Teddys name. There was no answer. A second time,
then a third time he called. No welcome sound came back in return.
But suppose his brother had been washed ashore as he had! Clenching
his fists tightly, to withstand the pain of his injured ankle, Roy
started a circuit of the island, for he must make a search.

The island was not large, so the search was soon concluded. Roy was
alone. If Teddy had gotten ashore, he must be on the mainland; but
on which side? Their camp of the night before had been on the left
bank. If Teddy had kept his bearings, he would, of course, head for
that. As Roy remembered, the canoe had been about in the center of
the river when it foundered, so that Teddy and the others might
possibly be on the right shore.

The pain in Roys ankle was still great, and the boy sat down and
removed his shoe and sock. He saw that the limb was swollen, and,
hopping to the waters edge, he soaked his already damp sock in the
stream and bound it tightly about the ankle. This should help reduce
the swelling and lessen the irritating pain. The cut on his head was
a small matter, he decided, and so gave it no attention other than
to bathe it with his wet handkerchief.

Now that the first sensation of uneasy wonderment had worn off, Roy
began to realize that he was hungry. His firearms had gone down with
the boat, so that even if there was game on the island he would have
no means of capturing it. He searched his pockets, and thankfully
his fingers closed upon his jackknife. This might be of some use.
The knife was a heavy one and the blade long. Roy balanced it in the
palm of his hand. Then, experimentally, he raised his hand over his
head and threw. The blade bit into a tree some ten feet distant.

Havent lost the old eye, he chuckled, then limped over and drew
the knife out. Havent done this since Teddy and I were kids.
Golly, Im glad I remember how to throw. Wonder if Ive got any
string in my pocket?

But this time his search was in vain. All he found besides the knife
were two handkerchiefs and a buffalo nickel. He looked at the coin
musingly.

Youre not much help out here, he muttered, with a grin. Cant
even buy a stamp with you. Well, maybe youll bring me luck. I sure
need it. Back you go, and he replaced the five-cent piece in his
soggy pocket.

Suddenly an idea struck him. He took one of the handkerchiefs, the
one he had wet in the river, and cut the hem off with his knife.
This he tested by pulling it.

Feels strong, he declared to himself. Well take a shot at it,
anyhow. Cant any more than fail.

He looked about him until he found a stick and a small dry log.

Now, Mr. Scout, do your stuff, he chuckled, and arranged his
implements. The strip of handkerchief he wound about the stick in
such a manner that, when made the string of a bow and sawed back and
forth, the stick spun rapidly around. Then he whittled one end of
the stick to a point, found a flat grooved rock to hold the other
end with, and bent to his task.

Handkerchief, stay with me! he breathed, and he started the stick
whirling in a small hole cut in his log. He had piled some fine, dry
bark shavings close to this hole, and now he watched them anxiously.
Faster and faster he twirled the stick. If the strip of cloth held,
he might-- Ah! There it was! The shavings were smoking! A little
more now!

He blew gently on his fuel and was rewarded by seeing a thready
spiral of smoke ascend. Then he cast the stick aside and fed the
tiny flame with dry leaves. Within five minutes he had a respectable
blaze going, actually a fire started! Did a wood fire ever before
send out such welcome incense? Not for Roy Manley--nor for many
another boy, perhaps, situated as he was just then.

The boy firemaker! he laughed, and strutted about until he came
down too hard on his sore leg. But the warmth of the flame was
grateful, for the day was cool and his wet clothes anything but
comfortable. Presently Roy removed his outer garments and spread
them around the fire. Standing near the blaze, he dried his
underthings and, after a time, dressed again with considerable
ceremony. Dry clothes are real clothes, he decided, while wet
clothes are worse than fetters. He felt better; much better.

The next thing to do is to eat, he told himself. Building a wall
of dirt around the fire so it could not spread, he went in search of
food, holding his knife in readiness in case an opportunity to use
it should present itself. He saw several rabbits and some squirrels,
but none of them was near enough to bring down. But at last he
espied a porcupine slowly crossing a log in front of him. Discarding
the knife in favor of a heavy stick he picked up, Roy rushed upon
the quilled animal. With one sharp blow on the head he killed it.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward, with a third-person omniscient narrator describing the action and thoughts of the protagonist, Roy. The tone is fairly matter-of-fact, with a few moments of humor.