Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XXI

THE CAPTURE OF LORD LOVAT

As weeks passed on and still the searchers did not come Lord Lovat's
hopes rose, and schemes no doubt began to run through his mind for a
continuance of the struggle or a reconciliation with the Government.
It may have occurred to him to send a diplomatic message to the Duke
of Cumberland at Fort Augustus, but there is no evidence to show
whether he took any definite steps until it was too late.

For long after the fateful visit of Murray of Broughton he had been
prepared for immediate flight, but as time passed and nothing
occurred to alarm him he took to sitting in the sun or playing a hand
of cards, or brooding inside the cottage upon the transience of all
human greatness.

There were with him about a score of Frasers, all armed with musket
and sword, and Bishop Hugh Macdonald, who did not desert the old man
in his hour of need.

It was on the first of June that the sloop _Furnace and Terror_
conveying a detachment of soldiers from the garrison of Fort William,
came sailing down the coast of Knoidart and Arisaig.  There they
landed soldiers who began to march inland, making for Loch Morar.

It was on the north side of the loch that they espied a man making
his way along the seashore--a very tall man who limped as he ran,
being surprised in an open patch of country.  Giving pursuit they
spread out along the hill to cut him off, but when the man on the
shore saw them he went away at a great pace, and had it not been that
the loch curves outwards so as to make escape the more difficult, he
might have gained the head of it, and won free.  To avoid falling
into their hands, however, he took to the loch and set out swimming
for an island in the middle of it, making good headway before even
they could get within shooting range.

And then, while they hunted for a boat, he scrambled upon the wooded
shore and disappeared.

Lord Lovat was sitting before his cottage as the swimmer waded
ashore.  He looked up having dozed in the sunlight and fallen asleep.

Facing him, with water dripping from his clothes, was Muckle John.

For a moment he blinked, and then perceiving that the soldiers on the
mainland were pushing a boat on to the loch he shrugged his shoulders.

"I was awaiting you," he remarked quietly, "but I did not look for
red-coats!  Even Murray, your last messenger, came alone."

Muckle John shook the water from his coat.

"Had I known you were here," he said, "I would rather have been
taken."

Lovat was greatly puzzled, so puzzled he could only gape at him.

"Come," went on Muckle John, "there is not a moment to be lost.  Get
you into a boat, and away with you.  Leave a dozen of your men here,
we can hold them back awhile.  But when you reach the mainland
consider yourself no longer safe from me."

Lovat grinned at that.

"How you fight who's to have my poor body," he replied.  "What if I
stay quietly here?  If it must be one or other, better Fort William,
where I shall at least be protected from you."

"My lord," returned Muckle John, "you estimate Fort William over
highly.  But let that pass--come, sir, if you will not move I'll put
you in a boat by force.  They are half-way across.  Will you rise or
no?"

Very slowly Lovat got upon his legs.

"I'll go," he said simply, and crossing to the other side of the
island permitted himself to be helped into a boat, and rowed to the
Arisaig side.

For the next hour there raged a battle royal between the red-coats
and the Frasers under Muckle John.  Again and again they tried to
take the island by storm but the fierce fire of the defending force
drove them back to firing over the sides of their boats, and in the
confusion no thought was given to the rear of the island and the
flight of Simon, Lord Lovat.

At last in a brief respite Muckle John ordered the Frasers to the
boats and pushing off they rowed with all haste out of range of the
island upon which the English landed in due course.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very dramatic. It is written in third person point of view, and the tone is one of suspense and excitement.