Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
VI

THE WATCHERS BY NIGHT

Darkness overtook Muckle John to the south of Loch Garry in the
Macdonald country.  He had travelled without halt all day, keeping to
the less frequented roads, and seeing on every side traces of the
panic that followed Culloden.  In every village was the same terror
and the same frantic haste--some burying claymores with desperate
hands so that they remained only half covered--others taking to the
hills with their wives and little ones.  Once a party of two hundred
or more passed him on the road making for the south-west.  They wore
the look of men utterly dispirited, limping in broken ranks for all
the blithe playing of a piper at their head.

Then plunging on through the heather he put mile after mile between
him and Fort Augustus.

It was about three on the same afternoon that he pulled in his horse
very sharply and swinging about gazed back.  He was not sure that he
had heard anything.  It was more a premonition than anything else,
but a northerner pays close heed to such things.

Everything was very lifeless and dreary on the road he had come.
There was no sign of man or beast.  With a grim look in his eyes
Muckle John continued his journey.

But about an hour later he swerved behind a ledge of rock and
cantered swiftly up the hill, keeping behind a huddle of crag for
some hundred yards.  Then turning as rapidly he watched the back
trail.  Several minutes passed and there was no sign of living thing.
Presently, however, something moved ever so slightly just where the
last rock towered out of the heather.  A man's head rose and fell
again.

With a faint smile Muckle John continued his way.  His horse was very
tired--twice it had nearly fallen through pure weariness.  That it
could carry him little further he realized at once.  He did not know
how many pursuers were on his track, but he put them down as Highland
caterans ready to cut a throat for a purse.  In that case they would
wait till he slept, and rush upon him.  It was, therefore, a matter
of life or death for him to find a place of refuge before the sun
fell.

The evening was closing in and he was so tired that he nodded as he
rode.  Nowhere in that rolling desolate country could he see a house
or any trace of clachan or croft.  And behind him waiting for
darkness were men as crafty and cruel as Indians and just as patient.
If not to-night then to-morrow, and he might wander over--miles of
heather for days on end.

Meanwhile the brain of Muckle John was working.  The future lay open
to him like a man reading a map.  He must throw them off the scent or
perish.  If not to-night--to-morrow.  He would never come to grips
with them--that he knew too well.  It would be in his heavy sleep in
the blackness of a Highland night.  It must not be thought Muckle
John was much concerned at the prospect.  Those were days when life
was not held dearly, and when a soldier of fortune might be hard put
to it several times in a week.  It was more the indignity of the
business that irritated him.  He was not accustomed to being stalked
like a young stag.  Most men gave Muckle John a wide berth.

Even as he brooded on the matter the grey horse tripped and fell.  No
power on earth could have kept it on its feet.  It was utterly done.
With a groan it collapsed upon its knees and rolled over on its side.
Muckle John had slipped off as it staggered and now stood above it
studying the next move.  He was above all anxious to get a glimpse of
his pursuers.  Loosening his sword and taking a pistol from his
great-coat pocket, he lay alongside the horse as though his leg were
securely fastened beneath it in its fall.  It was an old trick, but
this was a country of few horses and worth a trial.  He knew that
they would close in on him if they saw him apparently crippled and at
their mercy.  Slowly the minutes passed and there was no sound, while
a mist rose from the moist bed of the valley and hung in wreaths
between the hills.  Muckle John lay perfectly still, his pistol
hidden beneath the tail of his coat, one leg stretched over the
horse's flank, the other doubled up beneath him.

Near at hand a stone clinked at the burnside.  It might have been a
hill fox creeping away, but Muckle John knew that a fox does not do
such things.  He felt the eyes of some one upon him--but he could see
nothing, and all the time the darkness was falling swiftly and his
nerves were strained to the uttermost, waiting as he was upon his
side for the rush of perhaps a dozen men.

Up the hill he heard an owl call and at that he smiled, for he
knew--who better--that it was not the night for owls to cry Glengarry
way, and that there is a world of difference between the call of a
man and the call of an owl except to those who have never made it
their business to note such things.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is from Muckle John's perspective, and the tone is one of anxiety and fear.