Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
IX.

THE FIEND OF THE OUTPOSTS.


The scene of confusion in the room was, for some minutes, quite
animated. Burgoynes subordinates rushed in, with drawn swords, calling
for lights, and feeling around in the darkness with their weapons. Then
came the tramp of feet and clash of arms in the passage, as a number of
the headquarter dragoons came running in, some carrying torches, and
all with drawn pistols.

The room was thoroughly explored, and the mystery deepened, for not
a trace of the intruder was found. There lay the murdered soldier,
and there was the commander, in the arms of Baron Reidesel, slowly
recovering from the rough handling he had undergone, but nothing
remained of the demoniac visitor, save the overturned candlesticks.
General Fraser--the quartermaster-general--General Philips, Sir Francis
Clark, and most of Burgoynes staff, searched the room, trying to
discover some means of exit, but found none. Every panel was sounded,
but none seemed hollow, and the General himself put an end to the
search by saying:

Let it pass, gentlemen. Some ingenious scoundrel has been here, but he
is doubtless away by this time. We will visit the pickets. It shall
never be said that his majestys officers were frightened by a juggler.
Order up the horses.

But you are not fit to ride out, General, objected Philips.

I am always fit to do my duty, sir, answered Burgoyne, coldly. Come,
gentlemen, we have wasted too much time already.

The courage of the commander was evidently far from being shaken by his
appalling visitation. He had not said a word of its nature yet, and his
staff were still puzzled, but Sir Johns decided manner overbore all
opposition, and they silently followed him to the horses, which were
already in waiting. Then, as calmly as if nothing had occurred, the
General proceeded on his trip to the outposts.

Burgoynes manner was absent and thoughtful as he rode along,
mechanically taking the direction of the outposts. Two dragoons rode in
advance of the party to answer the challenges, and they soon arrived at
the picket reserve, toward the American army.

The officer in command was called up, and taken aside by the General,
who questioned him closely.

Has any disturbance occurred in your front to-night, sir?

Not yet, General, but--

But what, sir? Speak out.

We are led to expect one, General. Last night, it seems, that one
of the Indian scouts was murdered in sight of our advanced posts. My
predecessor warned me. A man on a black horse galloped by, and flames
of fire seemed to come from his mouth, they say. The moon was up, and
this Indian fired at the horseman, and then turned and ran in. The
horseman followed him, changing into the likeness of--I only tell it as
I was told, General--of the devil himself. Within fifty feet of this
reserve he overtook the Indian, and pierced him with a javelin. Then
came a red flash of fire, and the apparition threw the dead Indian over
his saddle, and fled like the wind, laughing in tremendous tones.

Did the sentries fire at him?

Yes, sir. They sent a regular volley after him, but he only laughed
louder and disappeared into the woods.

Sir John Burgoyne remained, silently musing over this story, but he
made no comment. He was, in fact, quite puzzled.

Just as he was about to speak, an exclamation from one of the soldiers
caused him to look round.

Then he struck his hand on his thigh with a muttered curse.

By heavens! there he comes again. Now let us see if he fools me a
second time.

It was indeed true. The same weird figure that has already been
described, was galloping up, on a black horse, flames and smoke
proceeding from his mouth, while a stream of sparks came from the
muzzle of his horse. He was coming from the extreme right of the
picket-line, galloping recklessly past the videttes, while shouts,
cries, and shots, followed his course as he came.

Burgoyne turned to Sir Francis Clark, his favorite aid-de-camp.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very dramatic. It is written in third person point of view, and the tone is one of suspense and mystery. The author uses vivid language to describe the events, and the reader is left wondering what is going to happen next.