What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
When he wakened he was on his knees, with hands clasped in supplication
before his wife, who, with tears in her eyes, but with laughter
quivering on her lips--in fact, nearly hysterical, had arisen from her
chair with her pencil and notebook.

"Why, Tom," she said, "what is the matter with you? You were not
yourself; it was so absurd and ridiculous. Did you go to sleep, and do
you talk in your sleep, as I walk in mine?"

"No," he answered, rising and blinking sheepishly. "Did I? Yes, perhaps
I did doze off--in the chair. Did I get up?"

"Yes, and got down--on your knees to me, with your eyes impassionedly
fixed on mine--oh, it was so funny, but it frightened me; you were
so intense--and you delivered yourself of--well, I took it down in
shorthand, and I'll transcribe it first, and then read."

He sat down in his chair, and she worked busily for a few moments, and
then said: "Now, I'll read first what I took down from that horrid
sea-story, and you take the book and follow me to see if I've made
mistakes."

He picked up the book from the floor, found the page, and scanned it
while she read from her copy as follows:

"'--which had blown, at times, with a force that nearly amounted to a
little gale, was lulling and becoming uncertain, as though awed by the
more violent power that was gathering along the borders of the sea, in
the direction of the neighboring continent. Each moment the eastern
puffs of air lost their strength and became more and more feeble,
until, in an incredibly short period, the heavy sails were heard
flapping against the masts--a frightful and ominous calm succeeding.'

"Now," she said, "did I make any mistakes in this?"

"No," he answered, "word for word it is correct."

"Very well. You know I stopped you at this point, and when I had
written it out in longhand, I said 'I'm ready. Go on,' and turned to
a new page; but you, instead of reading more, dropped the book, got
down on your knees, and--just listen--you uttered this in tones of the
utmost distress:

"'Sir, my life is in your hands; but as to my body, in relation to that
which you would persuade me to, my soul shall sooner be separated from
it, through the violence of your arms, than I shall condescend to your
request.'"

"And I said that in my sleep?" inquired the amazed Beverton.

"You did," laughed his wife, "in the most plaintive, piping feminine
accents imaginable. You were a perfect picture of virtue in distress.
What were you dreaming of?"

"I don't remember. Isn't this the page"--he glanced at the book--"that
you were reading when you fell asleep the other evening?"

"Yes, I think so; but I was looking at the knife when I dropped off."

"So was I," he responded. "Now, this is one of Cooper's tales, written,
I think, about the middle of this century; and, though it is full
of nautical language, there is nothing in it, up to this page, that
resembles this prayerful speech of mine, or your reprehensible language
the other evening, which you uttered, by the way, in hoarse, masculine
tones."

"Did I?" she asked. "What did I say?"

"Something about 'eight bells,' and 'all hands drunk.' I've forgotten
it all; but did you ever listen to any sailor yarns? Have you ever read
any sea-stories besides this?"

"I never saw a sailor in my life, that I know of. I never read a
sea-story, either, and never shall. I don't like them."

"Then it isn't the book, Grace, that affects us; it must be the knife.
It is merely a bright object which, if looked at steadily, will put a
person into a hypnotic sleep. At least, that is what I have heard."

"And then we talk," she said. "But why should you talk like a virtuous
maiden and I like a bad man?"

"I don't know," he said. "I know very little of hypnotism."

"Thomas Beverton," she said, with mock severity, "did you ever listen
to a prayer from a helpless female in your power?"

"No," he answered, laughing. "No, I swear it. I've always done the
praying myself."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Tom and his wife, and to set up the conflict that will drive the rest of the story. Tom and his wife are both shown to be intelligent and quick-witted, and they have a good sense of humor. However, they are also shown to be very different in their tastes and interests. Tom is interested in seafaring tales and in the knife that his wife has been reading about, while she is not. This difference will become important later on, as it will lead to Tom becoming obsessed with the knife and with the idea of going to sea, while his wife remains at home.