Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Sir Richard nodded to Saidee Isaacs.

She thought of it! he exclaimed. The credit goes to her. Ive no
doubt she thought she was helping a palbut she did more than that.

Fay thrust his hands into the side pockets of his coat and declared:
Youre right, Sir Richard! That little lady did us a good turn. I dont
see how Scotland Yard can get along without a woman inspector or two. I
never heard anybody say that a member of the fair sex would overlook a
trifle.

The Prime Minister was in the act of placing his hat on his head. He
bowed, instead, and passed Saidee Isaacs as he stepped toward the door.
He was followed by the silent members of his Government. The door
remained open. The great motors throbbed with life. The clash of their
gears woke echoes in the house as they started away.

MacKeenon and the little old Scot remained in the doorway. They glanced
at Fay and the girl. Their eyes swung toward Sir Richard, who had seated
himself in the chair which was before the three cipher boxes.

Keen-sniffing, the two detectives waited for the order. A chain clicked
in the inspectors side pocket. He shifted his weight to his right foot.
He glanced for a second time at Sir Richard.

Mac!

MacKeenon started and stood erect.

Mac, repeated Sir Richard. Mac, you may take these three boxes, with
the cipher solved, over to the big safe in Scotland Yard. Give them to
Cragen, who will be responsible for them.

The inspector hesitated and glanced at Fay.

Go on, Mac! said Sir Richard sternly. Do what I say. You and Simpson
shall guard them over. Leave me alone with Fay and the girl. Shut the
door when you go out.

Fay watched the two baffled Scots lift the tin boxes, cram them under
their arms and start down the hallway. The door slammed. MacKeenon, in
passing, had kicked it with his foot.

Saidee Isaacs bobbed her hat and flashed a glance at the door. She
turned and walked toward Sir Richard. She paused and stood in the center
of the room. The chief of the Criminal Investigation Division had
dropped his chin on his breast in an attitude of profound abstraction.

Fay softly moved to the girls side. The two remained silent and
thoughtful over the period of a long minute. They watched Sir Richard
like quick-witted children. Their eyes, although different in color,
contained the same steady stare.

You were a fool, suddenly said the chief without lifting his chin.
You blundered and blundered and blundered, Fay. You did everything
wrong. And yet everything wrong came out all right in the end. I think
Ill have to both condemn and praise you.

Saidee Isaacs took one quick step toward the table. Fay stopped her with
a reaching arm. There was a quizzical smile on the cracksmans face. He
had read Sir Richard aright.

I think started the chief of the investigation division, I think
that you are just a bad boy grown up.

Sir Richard sat bolt upright. He leveled a steady finger across the
polished surface of the table.

Youre a fool in a fools paradise. You cant move contrary to fifty
million people, and get away with it. There is a place for such who
break the lawsa house with a Thousand Doors! What have you got to say,
Fay? Do you want to go back to Dartmooror do you square it?

Fay reached upward, fingered his lapel and removed the little silver
greyhound. He tossed it to the table with a quick jerk of his wrist. He
stood with folded arms.

Im ready to go, he said, if you wont trust me, all the time!

The chiefs eyes narrowed to slits of steel. His fingers reached across
the table and snatched up the insignia of the Kings couriers.

Come here, he said to Saidee Isaacs.

She glanced at Fay, then moved around the table and stood at Sir
Richards side.

You may take this trifle of esteem and fasten it upon Chesters lapel,
again, the chief said. We always have a place for men like him.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of humor. The point of view is third person omniscient.