Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
They were two weeks on the way toward Venus. The flare-particle counter
clicked every second and a half. The sun's disk, ahead, was appreciably
larger and Venus was a thinner crescent than before. Earth was a small
object, though still larger than Venus, and the moon was very small
indeed. At this distance the Space Platform was, of course, invisible.
But the changes inside the ship were more marked than those outside.

The interior of the ship was now divided into two parts. McCauley and
Randy had pulled down the small cubicle made of soundproofing material
that had been built for Bramwell to work in. They had used the same
material to wall off a full half of the ship. There was a door in the
wall, and part of the air-freshening system operated through sound
baffles so that the air in the walled-off space was changed, quite
silently, with the same regularity as the air in the forward end of the
ship, where McCauley and Randy did their work.

But McCauley was vaguely disturbed. It had developed gradually, but
he did not feel right. Even though he could not become physically
exhausted in a total absence of gravity, he felt dull and weary. There
were measurements of flare-particle frequency to be recorded, both from
outside the ship where the Bramwell-Faraday screen did not operate, and
from inside where it did. The figures were curiously difficult to copy.
But there was no reason for him to feel weak and stupid. The air system
worked perfectly. The food was adequate. The ship moved steadily,
silently, perfectly on its way at a certain number of miles per second,
which was increasing a trifle because of the sun's gravitational field.
Everything seemed perfect. But he didn't feel right. Randy was not
himself, either. And Mr. Perkins sang only half-heartedly.

The canary began, now, what started out to be a beautifully executed
trill, but which died away after half a dozen tremolos.

"Mr. Perkins isn't in good voice today. What's troubling him?" Randy
spoke with a certain effort.

McCauley concentrated on the report he was filling out. He shook his
head and looked again; he was startled.

"Look here!" he said sharply. "We had the screen on when we left the
Platform. It kept out the radiation when we went through the Van Allen
belt. But now we're nearer the sun. Stuff's coming through the screen!
It's been coming through for days! And we haven't noticed it! What's
the matter with us?"

"I wouldn't know," said Randy listlessly.

"We're not on the ball," said McCauley. "We've got to do something
about this!"

He rose from his chair. It took but the slightest of effort, and he
floated free. He reached out his hand to the wall and directed the
motion of his whole body. He approached the soundproof barrier that now
divided the ship into two separate parts. He caught a handhold on the
door and knocked.

Minutes later the door opened. There was no gravity, so Bramwell did
not stand in the opening. He floated there, scowling. He and McCauley
faced each other, very much like swimmers, except that they swam in air.

"Radiation's coming through the screen," said McCauley. "It shouldn't.
Not this early, anyhow. Shouldn't something be done? I'm ordered to
consult you about all adjustments of the screen."

He was vaguely dissatisfied with himself for asking. He should not have
to ask anyone for instructions. He was ordered to in this case, but
decisions were his job.

"Turn it up!" said Bramwell peevishly. Then he seemed to notice that
he had not been actively unpleasant. He moved quickly to correct the
omission. "How many times," he demanded furiously, "have I told you not
to disturb me! Noise upsets me! Leave me alone! Isn't it enough that I
have to share the ship with clods, without having you bang on my door?"
He glared around the forward part of the ship. Mr. Perkins sang again,
a half-hearted attempt at a warble. "Noise! Noise! Noise!" rasped
Bramwell.

He pulled the door shut. McCauley floated lethargically to the screen
unit and made an adjustment.

Nothing important apparently happened, but something ceased to happen
so often. The sharp, slightly irregular clicking of the particle
counter seemed to stop. It was a full five seconds before it clicked
again, six before it clicked a second time, and five before it clicked
a third.

"I wish," said McCauley lethargically, "that I'd been a little more on
the job. Why didn't we notice the radiation count going up, Randy?"

"Bramwell complains if we touch the side of the ship because it makes
noises inside his sanctum," Randy answered. "Maybe we've been trying
not to think for fear the noise would disturb him."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of unease and foreboding.