What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
While she was conversing with me, as a woman with whom custom supplies
the place of wit, I had the leisure to examine both her countenance and
that of the other matron still stouter than she who, seated at some
distance and filling in the background of a piece of tapestry, never
opened her lips and scarcely raised her eyes in my direction. She was
dressed somewhat in the style of the dowager, in a dark silk gown with
tight sleeves, and a black lace scarf, surmounting a white cap, tied
under her chin. But it was not so fresh or clean, her hands were less
white, although equally plump, her type coarser, although coarseness was
very evident in the heavy features of the stout dowager of Ionis. In
short I was no longer in doubt as to her condition of companion, when
the dowager remarked apropos of my refusal to sup.

No matter, Zphyrine, we must not forget that M. Nivires is young, and
that he may be hungry yet before going to sleep. Order a light supper to
be served in his apartment.

The monumental Zphyrine arose; she was as tall as she was stout. And
above all, observed her mistress, do not let them forget the bread.

The bread, said Zphyrine, in a fine, husky little voice that offered
a pleasing contrast to her stature. Then she repeated, The bread! with
an intonation strongly marked by doubt and surprise.

The loaves, replied the dowager with authority.

Zphyrine seemed to hesitate an instant and went out, but her mistress
recalled her immediately, and gave her this strange orderThree
loaves!

Zphyrine opened her mouth to answer, shrugged her shoulders slightly
and disappeared.

Three loaves! I exclaimed in my turn. But what kind of an appetite do
you suppose I have, Madame la Comtesse?

Oh, that is nothing, said she, They are quite small.

She was silent for a moment, I sought for some subject of conversation
while awaiting the time when I might retire, when she appeared a prey to
a certain perplexity, placed her hand on a bell, and stopped to say as
if speaking to herselfStill three loaves!

It is a great deal in fact, answered I, repressing a strong temptation
to laugh. She looked at me in amazement, unconscious that she had spoken
aloud.

You speak of the law suit, said she, as if to make me forget her
distraction, it is a great deal that they claim. Do you think we will
gain it?

But she paid very little attention to my evasive answers, and rang
emphatically. A servant came, she asked for Zphyrine, who reappeared
and in whose ear she whispered, after which she seemed relieved, and
began to chat with me like a good-natured gossip, very ignorant, but
benevolent and almost maternal, questioning me upon my tastes, my
dispositions, my occupations and my pleasures. I made myself more of a
child than I was in order to put her at her ease, for I soon remarked
that she was one of those women of the great world who contrive to get
along with the most mediocre intelligence, and who would prefer not to
encounter a greater degree in others. On the whole she showed so much
good nature that I was not greatly bored with her during the space of an
hour, and that I did not await her permission to leave her with too much
impatience.

A groom of the chambers conducted me to my apartment, for it was almost
a complete suite, three decidedly handsome rooms, quite large and
furnished in the Louis XV style, with a great deal of luxury. My own
servant to whom my good mother had given his lesson, was in my bedroom,
awaiting the honor of undressing me, in order to appear as well posted
in his duties as the valets of great houses.

This is all very well, my dear Baptiste, said I to him, when we were
alone, but thou canst go to sleep, I shall undress myself as I have
been in the habit of doing all my life.

Baptiste bade me good-night, and left me. It was only ten oclock. I had
no desire to sleep so soon, so I set myself to examine the furniture and
pictures in my room, when my eyes fell upon the repast which had been
served near the fire-place, and the three loaves appeared before me in
all their mysterious symmetry. They were passably large and arranged in
the centre of the Japanese waiter in a pretty basket of old Saxony, with
a handsome silver salt-cellar in the midst, and three damask napkins
placed at intervals around it.

What the deuce does this mean? I asked myself, and why has this
vulgar accessory of my supper, the bread, tormented my aged hostess to
such an extent? Why were three loaves so expressly ordered? Why not
four! Why not ten? Since they take me for an ogre! Upon my word! This is
really a bounteous feast, and here are some bottles of wine whose
etiquettes promise well. But why three carafes of water? Here again it
becomes mysterious and absurd. Does this good old countess imagine that
I am triple, or that I carry two guests in my valise? I was musing upon
this enigma when some one knocked at the door of the ante-chamber.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the main character. The author achieves this by describing the scene in detail and by having the character interact with his surroundings.