Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Thanks to the horse which one of Lieutenant de Coigny's dragoons had
given up to me I reached Audun-le-Roman about seven o'clock. There a car
was immediately requisitioned, and I was taken to Nancy.

I had expected that mobilization would already have been ordered in
France. But nothing had been done, and my mind became obsessed by the
memory of the tremendous preparations I had witnessed that night,
preparations which removed any lingering doubt.

We went straight to the Prefecture, and I was taken before the Prefect.
I told him as fully as possible everything I had seen and heard. He
listened to me with the closest attention, taking notes. When I left him
he was already telephoning to Paris the information I had given him.

I wandered about in the streets of Nancy, as my train was not leaving
until twelve midday.

Too harassed and excited to rest, I went into a caf in the Place
Stanislas. When I put my hand in my pocket to pay I drew out the
note-case which Aurora had put there. I had never felt so well off as at
that moment when money, once the most coveted of possessions, seemed to
have lost all value for me.

I walked in a main street and stopped, all unconsciously, at a shop. I
went in and bought the clothes you see me in now. I was so stupefied
that I didn't even notice that for field service the blue tunic had
taken the place of the old black tunic with red collar.

At midday the train started for Paris. For the first time I saw all
those places that the retreat has engraved on our minds: Dormans, with
its bridge that we crossed on September 2nd in the added gloom of the
anniversary of Sedan; the lovely Jaulgonne road down which we chased the
enemy; Chteau-Thierry on the Marne, with its ruined castle perched up
on high, where we slept in a bed for the first time.

It was twenty minutes past five when the train drew up in
Chteau-Thierry station. There I learned the news of the general
mobilization. The wall of fire and steel which separated me from my
beloved sovereign of Lautenburg had at last been raised.

The atmosphere was heavy and thunderous when I got out at the Gare de
l'Est, but the great city of Paris was calm. Oh, Paris, once I had
feared so much for you when this terrible moment should come; your
excitability, your fits of passion, your very ardour, which might be
treason's opportunity. And now the hour had come and not even
assassination had shaken your quiet resolution, the assassination of the
man who had boasted that he could start or stop revolution at his will.

My mobilization orders had disappeared in the fire at the castle of
Lautenburg, but that didn't worry me much. I knew them by heart and
decided to leave next morning to rejoin the 18th Infantry at Pau.

I put on my uniform in a hotel bedroom and then, walking through the Rue
Lafayette, I made for the centre of the city.

People were much more excited than noisy. There were a good many
soldiers about, already officers like myself, but all of them had on
their arms mothers or wives who looked into their eyes with an
indescribable expression of pride and tenderness. But I was lonely and
alone on that tragic evening, even more lonely in that city than on the
night when I had left it.

I hadn't as yet any notion whither I was wending my way. But I began to
have some inkling when I had reached the Rue Royale with its brilliantly
lit terraces swarming with people. As I passed Weber's I thought of
Clotilde. "It's August. She hasn't got her white fox now. She must be
wearing a light silk blouse...." Then memories of the girl filled me with
loathing.

A pall of shadow was beginning to settle on the trees of the
Champs-Elyses under the darkening sky. I turned to the right and chose
the little alleys which remind you of a watering-place with their trees
and casinos. Cars stopped with a jerk before well-lit restaurants.
Commissionaires opened their doors.

I had reached the Avenue Gabriel, a dark tunnel of foliage. I walked up
it slowly. A feeling of unutterable anguish invaded my whole being. Soon
I saw lights in a restaurant window. On the door of that restaurant I
read the word "Laurent."

I sat down opposite that door, on the bench I knew I should find there.
My fingers groped over the rough surface of the back, striking here and
there the round, flat heads of the big nails.

At last they stopped. They had found what they wanted. I leaned down and
had no difficulty, though it was now quite dark, in deciphering the
three marks, those three letters "A. A. E." which the little Tumene
princess had once carved there.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is heavy and thunderous, with a sense of foreboding and dread. The protagonist is feeling isolated and alone, and the city seems to be looming over him. There is a feeling of unease and suspense throughout.