Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The soldier shouted something as the tiny car rattled over the cobbles
and darted into the one street of the town. Fay drew his cap down over
his eyes and leaned out. He blinked as he noted the kind of tires the
auto was equipped with. They were sections of rubber hose bound with
wire and rope. They bumped and clattered. They drove a series of shivers
up his spine.

Englands embargo! he groaned.

The Dutch boy pressed the pedal through to second speed. The car rumbled
over a causeway and turned into a white road which was lined with
stem-like trees of a species Fay had never seen. He held tight to the
bouncing seat and peered through the cracked windshield. The two
searchlights rose and fell with the engines revolutions. One moment the
road was dark and pit-like; the next, the way was clear for a full
hundred yards.

The boy knew his business. This much Fay had decided. The light car
roared with open muffler through sleeping towns. It swerved at a bend of
the canal and struck off across a dyke-country beyond which glowed the
lights of a city.

Low barns and houses, crowned with the gaunt arms of silent windmills,
flashed by. A shout struck out from a crossing. The boy went on with his
blue eyes fixed on the road and his hand on the throttle-lever.

Fay dragged out his watch by the chain and attempted to find the time.
He bent down, struck a match and held it to the crystal. It was close to
eleven oclock. The fog had lifted from the dyke-land.

A squeak of brakes and the smell of hot oil announced the first turn
leading into the city. Fay rose, after replacing his watch, and stared
over the windshield. He recognized the quays in the distance. He saw the
tall spire of the Htel de Ville.

Right here! he told the boy as the car stopped. You can go back. Take
these and buy a set of tires!

Fay handed over the sovereign capped with a second one. He shot a keen
glance at the driver. The boy had removed his cap and was bowing with
his broad face distended into a broader smile.

Slong! said Fay, hurrying off.

He heard the roar of the engine and the rattle of loose mud-guards and
clattery wheels. He did not glance back. The time was short. It was some
little distance to the embassy building.

To a man who had prowled the South Kensington Museum and gotten away
with its choicest jade and jasperto the first cracksman then livingthe
problems of the dye cipher and of opening the embassys safe were not
impossible. Fay had taken harder boxes without leaving a trace. The
stethoscope he carried was twenty times more delicate than the drum of a
human ear. The combination-locks were fitted with pads, but these would
not prevent some slight sound when the tumblers dropped into their
designated notches. The Hatton Gardens affair had proved the truth of
this.

There was also a little affair in Paris in the old days before the war.
Fay recalled its details as he glided through the dark streets in the
general direction of the embassy.

Dutch Gus, of dire memory, had boosted him up to a window from an alley.
The German crook had waited outside in the guise of a drunken
night-roundera part he often played in real life. Then the Germans
eyes had popped at the sight of swag, loot and plunder obtained in the
time of minutes,not more than fifteen.

Fay chuckled at this job which had been so easy. He had gone through a
vault door, a day door and the steel-ribbed keister by means of a
stethoscope. This enterprise, of course, had been on an ancient French
combination box whose tumblers, to him, were like piano-keys to a
virtuoso.

And now, Sir Richard had picked him as the best man handy. The chief had
cunningly played upon the heart cords of patriotism without slopping
over. The humor of the situation was its saving point. The chief had
failed by a double-play. Dutch Gus had appeared from out of the murky
waters of the Thames. Fay knew in the bottom of his heart that the
reason which was urging him on was the old one of jealousy. The
protection of the Yard, the call from Saidee Isaacs, the honor of the
enterprise which might save a world from a galling monopoly, all were
less than the quick flash of the German crook at the taffrail of the
inbound steamer.

Fay reviewed these things and smiled bitterly. He nursed no delusions.
He was going to take that box for the reason that a lesser crook and a
stool-pigeon was embarked on the same enterprise. It was hardly likely
that Dutch Gus, and any of his mob he might have with him, would strike
on the first night. He resolved to leave them an empty keister, as far
as the key to the cipher was concerned.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of humor. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is somewhat cynical.