What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Turn it off, Mac, he said. Put this room in complete darkness. Then
well all see the answer to the puzzle. It was too simple for the best
cipher experts in the world to solve.

The inspector reached upward and snapped off the switch. The room was
plunged into Stygian darkness. Fay widened his eyes and tried to make
out details. There was a glow from the side windows which gradually
brought out shadows.

Come here, Chester, commanded Sir Richard. Come around the table and
stand by my side. Look over my shoulder and tell me what you see on the
paper. Keep yours eyes shaded with your hands to shut out all light.
Now, what dyou see?

Fay rounded the table and glided to Sir Richards side. He leaned over
and strained his eyes as he stared blankly at the paper.

He saw nothing but fine black lines at first. He cupped his palms and
pressed them to his temples. He moved his head back and forth from the
page.

Keep at it! said Sir Richard with a positive chuckle.

Fay strained his glance. He saw then the first white glow of fire which
moved phosphorescently between the typed-lines. It steadied. It
disappeared. It came againthis time more prominently.

Good God! he exclaimed. Its there!

Yes, said Sir Richard. It is there! What do you make out between the
first and second line? Be careful, dont touch the paper. Thats itwhat
do you make out?

Werke-Maintz, said Fay.

Go onit reads easy after your eyes accustom themselves to the dark.
Whats between the next lines of typing?

Der est.... Blau die.... Alizarine.... Sapphire.... HSO ... HNO

And the next?

Carbanthrene Blau...?

Yes, and indigo and all the fast colors are there. They are worked out
to the minutest details and formulae. They throw the field wide open to
the world. There will be no more secret dyes!

Sir Richard grasped Fays right arm and continued:

Dyou see the trick, now? The triflelighter than any air? Dyou see
what baffled the cipher experts of four countries for two years?

Yes, I see it, now, said Fay. The formulae are written in radium.

Radium salt, which is white, upon white paper! blurted Sir Richard.
The only way you could ever see itis in the dark!

Fay straightened his back. He tried to pierce the gloom in the direction
of Saidee Isaacs. He glanced down at the table. The sheet of paper had
been whisked away by Sir Richard, who placed it in the box.

MacKeenon switched on the light. The room was filled with dazzling
brilliancy. Sir Richard pointed to the sheath of cipher papers which
were piled in the tin containers.

See anything there now? he asked Fay.

The cracksman passed his hand over his eyes and stared at the topmost
sheet. The cipher-writing had vanished. The lines of letters, which had
been typed for a blind, alone showed.

Now I know, sad Fay, how Ace-in-the-hole Harry worked the gulls on
the passenger boats. He wore heavy smoked glasses and marked the backs
of the cards with phosphor or luminous paint. It was the same thing as
putting the light outas far as he was concerned.

The trifles! chuckled Sir Richard. You threw Mononsonburgs key away.
Those glasses were thick enough and dark enough to read the writing on
the sheets in daylight. The secrets of the German dyes are written
between the lines by a fine pen dipped in radium salts.

The Prime Minister drew out a flat watch and consulted it. He turned
toward two men high in the Government whom Sir Richard had called.

Gentlemen, he said, we must be going. Sir Richard has entertained us
exceedingly. Id sum the matter up by saying everything was tried except
putting out the light. But then, who would have thought of so simple a
thing as that?


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to reveal how the cipher was solved and to show the Prime Minister's reaction.