Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
III.

_A DAY OF ADVENTURE._

If we have any tears all ready to flow, it is satisfactory to know
that they will not be required at present.  If we have poetic fire
and genius, even these gifts may for the time being be held in
reservation.  No "Ode to a Dying Fox" or "Elegy on the Death and
Burial of Reynard" will be necessary.  For Reynard did not die; nor
was he shot; at least, not sufficiently shot.

In one sense this was a pity.  It resulted in mingled humiliation and
bitterness for Archie and for the dogs.  He had pictured to himself a
brief moment of triumph when he should return from the chase, bearing
in his hand the head of his enemy--the murderer of the Ann hen's
husband--and having the brush sticking out of his jacket pocket;
return to be crowned, figuratively speaking, with festive laurel by
Elsie, his sister, and looked upon by all the servants with a feeling
of awe as a future Nimrod.

In another sense it was not a pity; that is, for the fox.  This sable
gentleman had enjoyed a good run, which made him hungry, and as happy
as only a fox can be who knows the road through the woods and wilds
to a distant burrow, where a bed of withered weeds awaits him, and
where a nice fat hen is hidden.  When Reynard had eaten his dinner
and licked his chops, he laid down to sleep, no doubt laughing in his
paw at the boy's futile efforts to capture or kill him, and promising
himself the pleasure of a future moonlight visit to Burley Old Farm,
from which he should return with the Ann hen herself on his shoulder.

Yes, Archie's hunt had been unsuccessful, though the day had not
ended without adventure, and he had enjoyed the pleasures of the
chase.

Bounder, the big Newfoundland, first took up the scent, and away he
went with Fuss and Tackler at his heels, the others following as well
as they could, restraining the dogs by voice and gesture.  Through
the spruce woods, through a patch of pine forest, through a wild
tangle of tall, snow-laden furze, out into the open, over a stream,
and across a wide stretch of heathery moorland, round quarries and
rocks, and once more into a wood.  This time it was stunted larch,
and in the very centre of it, close by a cairn of stones, Bounder
said--and both Fuss and Tackler acquiesced--that Reynard had his den.
But how to get him out?

"You two little chaps get inside," Bounder seemed to say.  "I'll
stand here; and as soon as he bolts, I shall make the sawdust fly out
of him, you see!"

Escape for the fox seemed an impossibility.  He had more than one
entrance to his den, but all were carefully blocked up by the keeper
except his back and front door.  Bounder guarded the latter, Archie
went to watch by the former.

"Keep quiet and cool now, and aim right behind the shoulder."

Quiet and cool indeed! how could he?  Under such exciting
circumstances, his heart was thumping like a frightened pigeon's, and
his cheeks burning with the rush of blood to them.

He knelt down with his gun ready, and kept his eyes on the hole.  He
prayed that Reynard might not bolt by the front door, for that would
spoil his sport.

The terrier made it very warm for the fox in his den.  Small though
the little Yorkie was, his valour was wonderful.  Out in the open
Reynard could have killed them one by one, but here the battle was
unfair, so after a few minutes of a terrible scrimmage the fox
concluded to bolt.

Archie saw his head at the hole, half protruded then drawn back, and
his heart thumped now almost audibly.

Would he come?  Would he dare it?

Yes, the fox dared it, and came.  He dashed out with a wild rush,
like a little hairy hurricane.  "Aim behind the shoulder!"  Where was
the shoulder?  Where was anything but a long sable stream of
something feathering through the snow?

Bang! bang! both barrels.  And down rolled the fox.  Yes, no.  Oh
dear, it was poor Fuss!  The fox was half a mile away in a minute.

Fuss lost blood that stained the snow brown as it fell on it.  And
Archie shed bitter tears of sorrow and humiliation.

"Oh, Fuss, my dear, dear doggie!" he cried, "I didn't mean to hurt
you."

The Skye terrier was lying on the keeper's knees and having a snow
styptic.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward, with a third-person omniscient narrator. The tone is mostly lighthearted, although there is a sense of tension and excitement as the fox hunt unfolds.