Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
IV.

_IN THE OLD CASTLE TOWER._

They were all together that evening in the green parlour as usual,
and everybody was happy and merry.  Even Rupert was sitting up and
laughing as much as Elsie.

The clatter of tongues prevented them hearing Mary's tapping at the
door; and the carpet being so thick and soft, she was not seen until
right in the centre of the room.

"Why, Mary," cried Elsie, "I got such a start, I thought you were a
ghost!"

Mary looks uneasily around her.

"There be one ghost, Miss Elsie, comes out o' nights, and walks about
the old castle."

"Was that what you came in to tell us, Mary?"

"Oh, no, sir!  If ye please, Bob Cooper is in the yard, and he wants
to speak to Master Archie.  I wouldn't let him go if I were you,
ma'am."

Archie's mother smiled.  Mary was a privileged little parlour maiden,
and ventured at times to make suggestions.

"Go and see what he wants, dear," said his mother to Archie.

It was a beautiful clear moonlight night, with just a few white
snow-laden clouds lying over the woods, no wind and never a hush save
the distant and occasional yelp of a dog.

"Bob Cooper!"

"That's me, Master Archie.  I couldn't rest till I'd seen ye the
night.  The hare----"

"Oh! that's really nothing, Bob Cooper!"

"But allow me to differ.  It's no' the hare altogether.  I know where
to find fifty.  It was the way it was given.  Look here, lad, and
this is what I come to say, Branson and you have been too much for
Bob Cooper.  The day I went to that wood to thrash him, and I'd hae
killed him, an I could.  Ha! ha!  I shook hands with him!  Archie
Broadbent, your father's a gentleman, and they say you're a chip o'
t' old block.  I believe 'em, and look, see, lad, I'll never be seen
in your preserves again.  Tell Branson so.  There's my hand on't.
Nay, never be afear'd to touch it.  Good-night.  I feel better now."

And away strode the poacher, and Archie could hear the sound of his
heavy tread crunching through the snow long after he was out of sight.

"You seem to have made a friend, Archie," said his father, when the
boy reported the interview.

"A friend," added Mr. Walton with a quiet smile, "that I wouldn't be
too proud of."

"Well," said the Squire, "certainly Bob Cooper is a rough nut, but
who knows what his heart may be like?"

Archie's room in the tower was opened in state next day.  Old Kate
herself had lit fires in it every night for a week before, though she
never would go up the long dark stair without Peter.  Peter was only
a mite of a boy, but wherever he went, Fuss, the Skye terrier,
accompanied him, and it was universally admitted that no ghost in its
right senses would dare to face Fuss.

Elsie was there of course, and Rupert too, though he had to be almost
carried up by stalwart Branson.  But what a glorious little room it
was when you were in it!  A more complete boy's own room could
scarcely be imagined.  It was a _beau ideal_; at least Rupert and
Archie and Elsie thought so, and even Mr. Walton and Branson said the
same.

Let me see now, I may as well try to describe it, but much must be
left to imagination.  It was not a very big room, only about twelve
feet square; for although the tower appeared very large from outside,
the abnormal thickness of its walls detracted from available space
inside it.  There was one long window on each side, and a chair and
small table could be placed on the sill of either.  But this was
curtained off at night, when light came from a huge lamp that
depended from the ceiling, and the rays from which fought for
preference with those from the roaring fire on the stone hearth.  The
room was square.  A door, also curtained, gave entrance from the
stairway at one corner, and at each of two other corners were two
other doors leading into turret chambers, and these tiny, wee rooms
were very delightful, because you were out beyond the great tower
when you sat in them, and their slits of windows granted you a grand
view of the charming scenery everywhere about.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene takes place in the old castle tower, where Archie, Rupert, and Elsie are spending the evening together. Mary, the maid, interrupts to tell them that Bob Cooper is outside and wants to speak to Archie. Archie goes to talk to him, and Bob tells him that he's decided to stop poaching on their land. Archie is surprised and pleased, and when he reports the conversation to his father, Mr. Walton is also pleased. The next day, they open up Archie's room in the tower and everyone is impressed by how nice it is.