Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
VI

"_You Owe a Chance to Earth!_"


Doubts assailed Carlin almost as soon as he retired. He could not
sleep, the rest of that night.

Had he been childish to let Jonny persuade him into giving the plan a
hearing? Jonny was sincere enough, but he was a fanatic on this one
subject of securing power for Earth.

The recklessness of Earthmen was proverbial. These men, made desperate
by long brooding over the poverty of their world, might think little of
the danger of provoking solar catastrophe in their obsessed desire to
secure copper.

Carlin chilled. He remembered what had happened years ago at the star
Mizar when Sun-mining had been attempted. The suck of magnetic dredges
swiftly creating a whirl in the star's surface gases, a Sun-spot
maelstrom that had expanded with disastrous swiftness. And then the
engulfing of the mining ships in the sudden outpour of increased heat,
the scorching of inner planets that wreaked ruin before the spots
subsided.

It had been the same later at Polaris, and at Delta Gemini. No wonder
that such a popular wrath against Sun-mining had arisen that Control
Council had strictly forbidden further attempts! Man's science, great
as it was, was not yet great enough to dare tampering with stars.

Yet he could see, too, how these Earthmen would inevitably turn their
thoughts to Sun-mining. There was not any copper left in their System
except in one body--their Sun. And that had limitless amounts of the
power-metal, in vaporized form. No wonder they had been led into the
plan to tap the metal of their Sun.

Carlin dozed before daybreak, but woke with the sunrise and went down,
to find the others already at breakfast. They greeted him with a word,
all but Harb Land who maintained a stony, dangerous silence.

"We'll go out and show you our work, as soon as you have breakfast,"
Jonny said quietly.

Gramp Land was the only one in good spirits. The old man twitted Carlin.

"It's sure a good thing you got reasonable last night. I would have
hated to blast you."

Marn smiled slightly. "You wouldn't have done it. You're too
chicken-hearted even to kill a fly."

"Ho, what are you talking about?" exclaimed Gramp indignantly. "When I
was young, they called me the toughest Earthman in space."

Carlin walked silently out to the workshop with Harb and Jonny. The
lame youngster opened the building, and then gestured toward the tall,
cylindrical machine.

"Take a look for yourself, first," he invited.

Carlin scanned the mechanism with trained eyes. Magnetic dredges were
a little out of his line, yet the principle of the mechanism was clear
enough.

"You understand the basic idea of Sun-mining?" Jonny was saying.
"A ship approaches the photosphere or visible surface of the Sun
as closely as possible, protected by heavy heat-screens from the
radiation. The magnetic dredge is then turned on. The dredge generates
a high-powered magnetic field concentrated into a beam. That beam
drives down into the swirling super-hot gases of the solar surface.

"Those gases consist of dozens of metals and other elements in
vaporized form--iron, copper, sodium, calcium and so on, all mixed
together. The beam sucks a column of those solar gases up to the
ship. For its magnetic pull powerfully attracts the iron vapor in the
mixture, and so the whole mixture is rapidly sucked upward."

He pointed to the massive flared nozzles in the downward projector-face
of the great machine.

"The gases are sucked in there, through Markheim filters which can be
set to screen out the atoms of any desired element. The copper gases
are screened out, solidified by cooling, and stored. The other gases go
on through the filters."

Carlin nodded curtly. "And those unwanted gases are ejected into space,
and more of the solar mixture continuously drawn up, and so on until
your ship is filled with copper. Yes, it's the same scheme that was
used by the Mizar and Polaris Sun-miners. And it will have exactly the
same result! Sucking gases out of any point in the solar surface will
lower pressure at that point. And lowered pressure at any point of the
photosphere instantly and inevitably starts a whirl of gases, a growing
maelstrom or Sun-spot!"


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person omniscient.