Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Fay wasted no time. He reached the hotel, called for mail which he knew
he did not have, then hurried upstairs and entered his room. He emptied
the black bag of its contents, placed the surgical tools about his
pockets and under his vest so that they would not bulge, then examined
the revolver.

It was loaded. It was a perfect weapon of its kind. He thrust it in the
side-slit of his overcoat where his hand could reach readily. He rose.
It came to him with sudden force that he had burned his bridges, save
for the little silver greyhound. It would not do to have this on in case
of capture.

His eyes roamed the room. A cake of very thin soap attracted his
attention. Taking this, and pressing the insignia deep within the edge,
he moved to the window and examined the hiding place. An opening showed,
which he smoothed over by washing his hands and softening the soap. He
tossed the bar behind the wash-stand where it would never be noticed.

The bag caught his eye as he stepped toward the door. He returned,
picked up a few charred sticks and coals from the fireplace and dropped
them inside the instrument case. He locked it and tested its weight. A
maid or the Matre dHtel would be satisfied with the substitution
providing they did not force the lock.

All set, said Fay with American accent. When I come back to this
place, itll be with the key to the cipher or handcuffed. The coppers in
this burg know where everybody lives.

He went down the stairs and out into the street. This time he did not
glance behind as he hurried toward the center of the city and the
railroad station by which a number of trains could be taken out of the
Lowland country.

It was his intention to ride some little distance toward the German
border, get off the train, and double back on foot so as to throw off
any possible pursuit.

He found a map near the booking-office. The station was thronged with
Germans and commercial travelers who were expecting the final lifting of
the great embargo against the Mittel nations. England and the States
were cursed in Low Dutch.

Fay made a note of the train time on his cuff with a tiny lead-pencil.
He had over thirty minutes to catch the first train eastward. He passed
through the station and stood on the curb whereat decrepit motor cars
and thin horses clattered up with passengers.

Suddenly, with the intuition given to the hunted, he saw a familiar form
dodge out of his sight and behind a corner where the traffic swirled. He
acted swiftly. Crossing the street, he hurried down the sidewalk and
away from the station.

Fay went on with eyes darting to left and right. He passed an open
doorway. In it stood two forms. They had attempted to dodge out of
sight, but were held by outpouring customers of the store where they had
taken refuge.

Fay photographed them on his mind without turning his head in the
slightest. He glided on with swift steps. A bitter smile crossed his
lips as he sprang over the curb and darted between two vehicles.

One of the two men was MacKeenon! There could be no doubt of this at
all. Fay had caught a side view of the Scotch inspector. His companion
was a little old man with a bundle.

And may your own bungling undo you! Fay exclaimed as he turned a
corner and darted out of sight. Im done, he added. Ill never trust
another copper.

He was deeply in earnest. The sight of MacKeenon had stirred every drop
of blood in his body. It was not enough that Sir Richard would send him
after the cipher-key. The oily chief of the Identification Bureau had
seen to it that the bloodhounds of the law went along in case of a
change of heart.

Fay had changed his heart. It was steeled now against the project. He
flashed a plan over his mind in the time of seconds. He would abandon
the quest, make for the quays, take a boat for the north, and join the
two card swindlers. In this manner the Yard would be foiled, and the
cipher-key could rot in the safe.

Sir Richard had underestimated his man. Fay had the memory of five years
in that Dartmoor hell to spur his heels. The chief had stated that he
was to go scot-free. The bitterness of this came home to him at the
memory of MacKeenons long keen face. The hollow eyes and sharp features
of the inspectorthe gaunt, trained-to-the-last-ounce of energy and
cunning stamped there, was a whip held over the felon.

Au revoir, Fay said bitterly, as he dodged and twisted and turned in
his path toward the quays. Follow me now if you can, Mac!


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of paranoia and paranoia. The point of view is limited third person, focused on Fay. The tone is tense and anxious.