Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Walton hesitated.

"I know my brother well," said Ramsay.  "As good a fellow as ever
lived, but as headstrong as a nor'-easter.  And now he has been
spending money on machinery to the tune of some ten thousand pounds.
He has been growing crop after crop of wheat as if he lived on the
prairies and the land was new; and he has really been putting as much
down in seed, labour, and fashionable manures as he has taken off."

"Yet," said Walton, "he is no fool."

"No, not he; he is clever, too much so.  But heaven send his pride,
honest though it be, does not result in a fall."

The two sat till long past twelve talking and planning, then they
opened the casement and walked out on to the lawn.  It was a lovely
autumn night.  The broad, round moon was high in the heavens,
fighting its way through a sky of curdling clouds which greatly
detracted from its radiance.

"Look, Walton," said the sailor, "to windward; yonder it is all blue
sky, by-and-by it will be a bright and lovely night."

"By-and-by.  Yes," sighed Walton.

"But see!  What is that down yonder rising white over the trees?
Smoke!  Why, Walton, the barnyards are all on fire!"

Almost at the same moment Branson rushed upon the scene.

"Glad you're up, gentlemen," he gasped.  "Wake the Squire.  The
servants are all astir.  We must save the beasts, come of everything
else what will."

The farm-steading of Burley was built in the usual square formation
round a centre straw-yard, which even in winter was always kept so
well filled that beasts might lie out all night.  To the north were
the stacks, and it was here the fire originated, and unluckily the
wind blew from that direction.  It was by no means high; but fire
makes its own wind, and in less than half an hour the whole yard was
ablaze and burning fiercely, while the byres, stables, and barns had
all caught.  From the very first these latter had been enveloped in
dense rolling clouds of smoke, and sparks as thick as falling
snowflakes, so that to save any of the live stock seemed almost an
impossibility.

With all his mania for machinery, and for improvements of every kind
possible to apply to agriculture, it is indeed a wonder that the
Squire had not established a fire brigade on his farm.  But fire was
an eventuality which he had entirely left out of his reckoning, and
now there was really no means of checking the terrible conflagration.

As soon as the alarm was given every one did what he could to save
the live stock; but the smoke was blinding, maddening, and little
could be done save taking the doors off their hinges.

Who knows what prodigies of valour were performed that night by the
humble cowmen even, in their attempts to drive the oxen and cows out,
and away to a place of safety?  In some instances, when they had
nearly succeeded, the cattle blocked the doorways, or, having got out
to the straw-yard, charged madly back again, and prevented the exit
of their fellows.  Thus several servants ran terrible risks to their
lives.

They were more successful in saving the horses, and this was greatly
owing to Archie's presence of mind.  He had dashed madly into the
stable for his pet Scallowa.  The Shetland pony had never looked more
wild before.  He sniffed the danger, he snorted and reared.  All at
once it occurred to Archie to mount and ride him out.  No sooner had
he got on his back than he came forth like a lamb.  He took him to a
field and let him free, and as he was hurrying back he met little
Peter.

"Come, Peter, come," he cried; "we can save the horses."

The two of them rushed to the stable, and horse after horse was
bridled and mounted by little Peter and ridden out.

But a fearful hitch occurred.  Tell, the Squire's hunter, backed
against the stable door and closed it, thus imprisoning Archie, who
found it impossible to open the door.

The roof had already caught.  The horses were screaming in terror,
and rearing wildly against the walls.

Peter rushed away to seek assistance.  He met Branson, and in a word
or two told him what had happened.

Luckily axes were at hand, and sturdy volunteers speedily smashed the
door in, and poor Archie, more dead than alive, with torn clothes and
bleeding face, was dragged through.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is very dramatic. It is written in third person point of view, and the tone is one of suspense and excitement.