Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
X


TILL TAPPING

The loyalty Mollie had cherished to her early ideal of marriage burned
low for lack of fuel to feed upon. Her husband had practically deserted
her. When he returned to camp it was to bully money out of her or to get
some of their small store of belongings to sell. In the intervals she
might starve for all he cared.

There came a day when she definitely broke with her past life. She moved
into town and opened a small shop where she sold home-cooked food to
miners eager to buy her cakes, cookies, pies, and doughnuts. She called
her place the Back Home Kitchen, and she did a thriving business. The
members of the fire companies patronized the store a great deal, and
since they ran to a large extent the political and social life of
Virginia City, as they had done in San Francisco a few years earlier,
her shop became so much the vogue that she had to employ a Chinese
assistant to help with the cooking.

Scot watched the venture but offered no advice. He had, in fact, not
spoken to Mollie since the day after the funeral. Vicky had been taken
to Carson by Hank Monk on the stage and was writing back badly spelled
but enthusiastic letters to her sister. The cards had been re-shuffled,
McClintock told himself, and he was no longer sitting in at the game.

Meanwhile, the new camps of Nevada went their humorous, turbulent, and
homicidal way. Men grew wild over prospects that never had a chance to
become real mines. They worked on croppings, sold and bought feet in a
thousand prospects, struck it rich, went stony broke again within the
month. They were in bonanza or in borrasca[8], and in either case kept
their grins working. They lived in brush tents, sack tents, or dugouts,
and the hard conditions never disturbed their happy-go-lucky optimism.

-----

[8] The Mexicans used to say that a mine was in bonanza when its
production was high, and in borrasca before the vein was struck or after
it had pinched out. With the adoption of the terms by Americans, the
words took on a more general application. A bonanza was then any highly
profitable venture; a borrasca was the reverse.W. M. R.

-----

They shared their last pot of beans with a stranger and were gaily
confident that to-morrow they would strike a pick into the glory hole.

The saving grace of American humour salted all their adventures. The law
in particular, when it made its belated appearance, was a merry jest.
Those who dispensed it and those who dispensed with it enjoyed the joke
alike.

Two women in Carson quarrelled over a cow. One accused the other of
milking it secretly. The jury decided that the defendant was guilty of
milking the cow in the second degree. A man in Virginia City was haled
before the court charged with drunkenness, which in Nevada was held to
be a right guaranteed a man by the Constitution. The constable Mike
whispered to the justice that the arrested man had one hundred dollars
on his person. Are youse guilty? the judge demanded. The defendant
said he was not. You know domn well yez are. I fine yez a hundred
dollars, fifty for me an fifty for Mike, the Court passed judgment.
Sometimes the laugh was on the Court, as in the case of a justice, very
hazy as to his powers and duties, who conducted the preliminary hearing
of a man charged with murder. He listened to the evidence till he was
satisfied, then announced his decision. I find you guilty and sentence
you to be hanged at ten oclock to-morrow. The constable will bring the
prisoner and a rope.

Even the homicidal mania of those who lived by their wits had its
momentary gleams of dreadful humour. Scot drifted into a barber shop one
day and found El Dorado Johnnie having his hair curled. The youth in the
chair was dressed in new clothes. His boots had been polished. He was
shaved and perfumed.

Going to your wedding, Johnnie? the faro dealer asked.

No, sir, replied the other. Farmer Peel has give out that hes
gunnin for me. If Im elected as the corpse I want to look nice.

It turned out that Johnnies forethought was wise. Farmer Peel shot
quicker and straighter than he did. Peel, who had come from Salt Lake
with a record of several killings, was arrested for having made a
disturbance. He was fined and released on his own recognizance to go and
raise the money. Farmer Peel sober was a pleasant, mild young fellow
who wanted to be at peace with the world, but Peel drunk was a demon.
Before he raised the money to pay his fine, he visited several saloons
and had a change of heart. Back he went to the court, caught the justice
by the beard, and mopped that dignitary all over the floor. Nobody
intervened, for the drunken man was dangerous. The justice, released at
last, had to be removed to the hospital for repairs. Virginia City
merely grinned. Judge or no judge, every man had to play his own hand.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Mollie has moved into town and opened a small shop called the Back Home Kitchen, where she sells home-cooked food to miners. Her husband, Scot, has not spoken to her since the day after their daughter's funeral.
One day, Scot walks into the shop and sees Johnnie, a young man who is known to be a target for Farmer Peel. Johnnie is dressed in new clothes and getting his hair curled, and he tells Scot that he wants to look nice in case he is killed.
Sure enough, Farmer Peel comes into the shop and shoots Johnnie. He is arrested and fined, but before he can pay the fine, he gets drunk and goes back to the court to attack the judge.
The judge is taken to the hospital for repairs, and Virginia City just grins.