Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
III.

"_SOMETHING IN SOAP._"

It was a still, sultry night in November.  Archie's balcony window
was wide open, and if there had been a breath of air anywhere he
would have had the benefit of it.  That was one advantage of having a
room high up above the town, and there were several others.  For
instance, it was quieter, more retired, and his companions did not
often take him by storm, because they objected to climb so many
stairs.  Dingy, small, and dismal some might have called it, but
Archie always felt at home up in his semi-attic.  It even reminded
him of his room in the dear old tower at Burley.  Then his morsel of
balcony, why that was worth all the money he paid for the room
itself; and as for the view from this charming, though
non-aristocratic elevation, it was simply unsurpassed,
unsurpassable--looking far away over a rich and fertile country to
the grand old hills beyond--a landscape that, like the sea, was still
the same, but ever changing; sometimes smiling and green, sometimes
bathed in tints of purple and blue, sometimes grey as a sky o'ercast
with rain clouds.  Yes, he loved it, and he would take a chair out
here on a moonlight evening and sit and think and dream.

But on this particular night sleep, usually so kind to the young man,
absolutely refused to visit his pillow.  He tried to woo the goddess
on his right side, on his left, on his back; it was all in vain.
Finally, he sat bolt upright in his little truckle bed in silent
defiance.

"I don't care," he said aloud, "whether I sleep or not.  What does it
matter?  I've nothing to do to-morrow.  Heigho!"

Nothing to do to-morrow!  How sad!  And he so young too.  Were all
his dreams of future fortune to fade and pass away like this--nothing
to do?  Why he envied the very boys who drove the mill wagons that
went lazily rolling past his place every day.  They seemed happy, and
so contented; while he--why his very life--had come to be all one
continued fever.

"Nothing to do yet, sir?"  It was the ordinary salutation of his
hard-working mite of a landlady when he came home to his meal in the
afternoon.  "I knows by the weary way ye walks upstairs, sir, you
aren't successful yet, sir."

"Nothink to do yet, sir?"  They were the usual words that the slavey
used when she dragged upstairs of an evening with his tea-things.

"Nothink to do," she would say, as she deposited the tray on the
table, and sank _sans ceremonie_ into the easy-chair.  "Nothink to
do.  What a 'appy life to lead!  Now 'ere's me a draggin' up and down
stairs, and a carryin' of coals and a sweepin', and a dustin' and a
hanswering of the door, till, what wi' the 'eat and the dust and the
fleas, my poor little life's well-nigh worrited out o' me.  Heigho!
hif I was honly back again in merrie England, catch me ever goin' to
any Australia any more.  But you looks a borned gent, sir.  Nothink
to do!  My eye and Betty Martin, ye oughter to be 'appy, if you
ain't."

Archie got up to-night, enrobed himself in his dressing-gown, and
went and sat on his balcony.  This soothed him.  The stars were very
bright, and seemed very near.  He did not care for other
companionship than these and his own all-too-busy thoughts.  There
was hardly a sound to be heard, except now and then the hum of a
distant railway train increasing to a harsh roar as it crossed the
bridge, then becoming subdued again and muffled as it entered woods,
or went rolling over a soft and open country.

Nothing to do!  But he must and would do something.  Why should he
starve in a city of plenty?  He had arms and hands, if he hadn't a
head.  Indeed, he had begun of late to believe that his head, which
he used to think so much of, was the least important part of his
body.  He caught himself feeling his forearm and his biceps.  Why
this latter had got smaller and beautifully less of late.  He had to
shut his fist hard to make it perceptible to touch.  This was worse
and worse, he thought.  He would not be able to lift a fifty-six if
he wanted to before long, or have strength enough left to wield a
stable broom if he should be obliged to go as gardener to Winslow.

"What next, I wonder?" he said to himself.  "First I lose my brains,
if ever I had any, and now I have lost my biceps; the worst loss
last."

He lit his candle, and took up the newspaper.  "I'll pocket my pride,
and take a porter's situation," he murmured.  "Let us see now.
Hullo! what is this?  'APPRENTICE WANTED--the drug trade--splendid
opening to a pushing youngster.'  Well, I am a pushing youngster.
'Premium required.'  I don't care, I have a bit of money left, and
I'll pay it like a man if there is enough.  Why the drug trade is
grand.  Sydney drug-stores beat Glasgow's all to pieces.  Druggists
and drysalters have their carriages and mansions, their town and
country houses.  Hurrah!  I'll be something yet!"


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Archie: Young man, protagonist. Recently moved to Australia and struggling to find work.
2. Archie's landlady: An older woman who runs the boarding house where Archie lives.
3. The slavey: A young woman who works for Archie's landlady.
4. passersby: n/a