Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
"But there'll come a time," said Randy cheerfully, "when one of my
twenty-five-times-removed great-grand-sons will be spanked by his
mother. He'll howl. It will be a very commonplace sort of happening.
The only thing odd about it will be that it won't happen down on old
Earth below us. It'll happen off somewhere on a planet that nobody's
dreamed of yet, circling a sun that nobody's bothered to name, off
yonder somewhere in the Milky Way."

McCauley grunted again.

"You haven't any kids yet, let alone great-great-grand-kids. You're not
even married. Why the sentiment?"

Randy's voice came clearly in the helmet phones.

"I've been trying to think of a reason for me to be here," he
explained, "playing with an oversized Erector set, instead of chasing
some girl down on Earth. And I realized that this Platform, which
will eventually be junked, has to be built before we can hope to
colonize the nearer planets, let alone the stars. So now I know why
I'm here. I'm doing this so my many-times-removed great-grandchildren
can get their spankings all over the galaxy instead of only on the
insignificant earth below. That's a noble purpose! I feel better."

"Good!" said McCauley, with irony.

He felt metallic clankings through the girder on which he was working.
He turned his head within the space helmet. Sammy Breen had come out
of the air lock, guiding himself by a handrail to a position astride a
beam. He slid swiftly along its length. He came to a junction, flipped
his space rope around to the far side of the joining place, swung over,
and slid to the next junction like someone coasting down a stair rail.
He was a cheerful young man, Sammy Breen.

"Sammy," said McCauley, "hold everything. I'll be over."

When people encounter each other only occasionally, there is no
particular need for them to think intensively about each other's
feelings. But three people isolated in an enforced intimacy much closer
than that of cellmates have to take thought. When one of them is
responsible for the other two, tact has to be practiced painstakingly.
When one of the three is a young man who doesn't believe that anything
can happen to him because nothing ever has, the situation calls for
extreme care. McCauley had to use his brains if Randy and Sammy Breen
were to be able to work with him under exacting conditions like these.

He unhooked his space rope, rehooked it past a junction, and pulled
himself toward the place where Sammy Breen had come to a stop. It was,
of course, at a place where two of the frame pieces of the Platform
should join a third. They were to be bolted together and then another
long section of framework would be added, which in turn would have
yet another beam placed and bolted to it so the construction could
continue. At the moment, however, a bolt hole needed to be reamed so
the parts could be bolted together.

McCauley arrived at the corner of a triangle. When linked to all the
others, this triangle would ultimately support the skin and hold the
interior partitions of the Platform. Again he slipped his space rope
over the junction, hooked it, followed it, and went on toward the place
where Sammy Breen was. Sammy's voice came out of his helmet phones.

"I saw a man do this once in a circus," said Sammy. "I thought he was
wonderful. But I can do it!"

McCauley looked up. Sammy Breen had his space rope hooked around the
girder, to be sure. But now he floated, head toward Earth, with one
finger barely touching the metal beam. A photograph would have shown
him apparently supporting his whole weight on a single finger. But here
there was no weight. Nothing drew Sammy toward either Earth or the
Platform. But for his space rope, the lightest thrust of his finger
would have sent him floating slowly, implacably, helplessly away from
the spidery floating object, to drift alone through space forever.

"I hope you checked your rope before you came outside," McCauley said
dryly.

"I did," said Sammy nonchalantly. "It's okay."

He tried to pull himself back to the girder with his fingers. He
couldn't quite reach it. He was no more than half an inch from a
fingertip hold that would have been more than enough, but he couldn't
make it. He reached and reached, and his movements made his body in
its space suit revolve ridiculously upside down and otherwise. Then he
couldn't get his hand anywhere near the girder.

McCauley watched. He was unreasonably tense. But Sammy rather
sheepishly gave a tug on his space rope and floated back to firm
contact with the Platform.

"Not to be finicky about it," said McCauley, "that wasn't wise. There
was only one chance in ten thousand that anything could happen, but
there was no need to take it."


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-Randy and McCauley are working on a space platform, discussing the purpose of their work
-Sammy Breen joins them and McCauley scolds him for taking unnecessary risks
-Sammy tries to show off by floating without holding on to anything, but starts to drift away
-McCauley has to rescue him and scolds him again