Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"Well," Bob acquiesced with a sigh, "I suppose it must.  Now we're
going to be spliced by special license, Sarah and I.  None of your
doing things by half.  And Harry there is going to order the cabs and
carriages, and favours and music, and the parson, and everything
firstchop."

The idea of "ordering the parson" struck Archie as somewhat
incongruous; but Bob had his own way of saying things, and it was
evident he would have his own way in doing things too for once.

"And," continued Bob, "the ex-policeman's wife and I are going to buy
the bonnie things to-morrow.  And as for the 'bobby' himself, we'll
have to send him away for the day.  He is too fond of one thing, and
would spoil the splore."

Next day sure enough Bob did start off with the "bobby's" wife to buy
the bonnie things.  A tall, handsome fellow Bob looked too; and the
tailor having dona his best, he was altogether a dandy.  He would
persist in giving his mother, as he called her, his arm on the
street, and the appearance of the pair of them caused a good many
people to look after them and smile.

However, the "bonnie things" were bought, and it was well he had
someone to look after him, else he would have spent money uselessly
as well as freely.  Only, as Bob said, "It was but one day in his
life, why shouldn't he make the best of it?"

He insisted on making his mother a present of a nice little gold
watch.  No, he _wouldn't_ let her have a silver one, and it _should_
be "set with blue stones."  He would have that one, and no other.

"Too expensive?  No, indeed!" he cried.  "Make out the bill, master,
and I'll knock down my cheque.  Hurrah! one doesn't get married every
morning, and it isn't everybody who gets a girl like Sarah when he
does get spliced!  So there!"

Archie had told Bob and Harry of his first dinner at the hotel, and
how kind and considerate in every way the waiter had been, and how he
had often gone back there to have a talk.

"It is there then, and nowhere else," said Bob, "we'll have our
wedding dinner."

Archie would not gainsay this; and nothing would satisfy the lucky
miner but chartering a whole flat for a week.

"That's the way we'll do it," he said; "and now look here, as long as
the week lasts, any of your friends can drop into breakfast, dinner,
or supper.  We are going to do the thing proper, if we sell our best
jackets to help to pay the bill.  What say, old chummie?"

"Certainly," said Harry; "and if ever I'm fool enough to get married,
I'll do the same kind o' thing."

A happy thought occurred to Archie the day before the marriage.

"How much loose cash have you, Bob?"

"I dunno," said Bob, diving his hands into both his capacious
pockets--each were big enough to hold a rabbit--and making a
wonderful rattling.

"I reckon I've enough for to-morrow.  It seems deep enough."

"Well, my friend, hand over."

"What!" cried Bob, "you want me to bail up?"

"Bail up!"

"You're a downright bushranger, Archie.  However, I suppose I must
obey."

Then he emptied his pockets into a pile on the table--gold, silver,
copper, all in the same heap.  Archie counted and made a note of all,
put part away in a box, locked it, gave Bob back a few coins, mostly
silver, and stowed the rest in his purse.

"Now," said Archie, "be a good old boy, Bob; and if you want any more
money, just ask nicely, and perhaps you'll have it."

There was a rattling thunder-storm that night, which died away at
last far beyond the hills, and next morning broke bright, and cool,
and clear.

A more lovely marriage morning surely never yet was seen.

And in due time the carriages rolled up to the church door, horses
and men bedecked in favours, and right merry was the peal that rang
forth from St. James's.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is lighthearted and humorous. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is cheerful and optimistic.