Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
IX.

_THE WHOLE YARD WAS ABLAZE AND BURNING FIERCELY._

One year is but a brief span in the history of a family, yet it may
bring many changes.  It did to Burley Old Farm, and some of them were
sad enough, though some were glad.  A glad change took place for
instance in the early spring, after Bob's departure; for Rupert
appeared to wax stronger and stronger with the lengthening days; and
when Uncle Ramsay, in a letter received one morning, announced his
intention of coming from London, and making quite a long stay at
Burley, Rupert declared his intention of mounting Scallowa, and
riding over to the station to meet him.  And the boy was as good as
his word.  In order that they might be both cavaliers together, Uncle
Ramsay hired a horse at D----, and the two rode joyfully home side by
side.

His mother did not like to see that carmine flush on Rupert's cheeks,
however, nor the extra dark sparkle in his eyes when he entered the
parlour to announce his uncle's arrival, but she said nothing.

Uncle Ramsay Broadbent was a brother of the Squire, and, though
considerably older, a good deal like him in all his ways.  There was
the same dash and go in him, and the same smiling front, unlikely to
be dismayed by any amount of misfortune.

"There are a deal of ups and downs in the ocean of life," Archie
heard him say one day; "we're on the top of a big wave one hour, and
in the trough of the sea next, so we must take things as they come."

Yes, this uncle was a seafarer; the skipper of a sturdy merchantman
that he had sailed in for ten long years.  He did not care to be
called captain by anyone.  He was a master mariner, and had an
opinion, which he often expressed, that plain "Mr." was a gentleman's
prefix.

"I shan't go back to sea again," he said next morning at breakfast.

"Fact is, brother, my owners think I'm getting too old.  And maybe
they're right.  I've had a fair innings, and it is only fair to give
the young ones a chance."

Uncle Ramsay seemed to give new life and soul to the old place.  He
settled completely down to the Burley style of life long before the
summer was half over.  He joined the servants in the fields, and
worked with them as did the Squire, Walton, and Archie.  And though
more merriment went on in consequence, there was nevertheless more
work done.  He took an interest in all the boys' "fads," spent hours
with them in their workshop, and made one in every game that was
played on the grass.  He was dreadfully awkward at cricket and tennis
however; for such games as these are but little practised by sailors.
Only he was right willing to learn.

There was a youthfulness and breeziness about Uncle Ramsay's every
action, that few save seafarers possess when hair is turning white.
Of course, the skipper spent many a jolly hour up in the room of the
Castle Tower, and he did not object either to the presence of old
Kate in the chair.  He listened like a boy when she told her weird
stories; and he listened more like a baby than anything else when
Branson played his fiddle.

Then he himself would spin them a yarn, and hold them all enthralled,
especially big-eyed Elsie, with the sterling reality and graphicness
of the narrative.

When Uncle Ramsay spoke you could see the waves in motion, hear the
scream of the birds around the stern, or the wind roaring through the
rigging.  He spoke as he thought; he painted from life.

Well, the arrival of Uncle Ramsay and Rupert's getting strong were
two of the pleasant changes that took place at Burley in this
eventful year.  Alas!  I have to chronicle the sad ones also.  Yet
why sigh?  To use Uncle Ramsay's own words, "You never know what a
ship is made of until stormy seas are around you."

First then came a bad harvest--a terribly bad harvest.  It was not
that the crops themselves were so very light, but the weather was
cold and wet; the grain took long to ripen.  The task of cutting it
down was unfortunately an easy one, but the getting it stored was
almost an impossibility.  At the very time when it was ripe, and
after a single fiercely hot day, a thunder-storm came on, and with it
such hail as the oldest inhabitant in the parish could not remember
having seen equalled.  This resulted in the total loss of far more of
the precious seed, than would have sown all the land of Burley twice
over.

The wet continued.  It rained and rained every day and when it rained
it poured.

The Squire had heard of a Yankee invention for drying wheat under
cover, and rashly set about a rude but most expensive imitation
thereof.  He first mentioned the matter to Uncle Ramsay at the
breakfast-table.  The Squire seemed in excellent spirits that
morning.  He was walking briskly up and down the room rubbing his
hands, as if in deep but pleasant thought, when his brother came
quietly in.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward, with a third-person omniscient narrator. However, the author does use some literary devices to create a more vivid picture. For instance, they use personification when they write that "the weather was cold and wet; the grain took long to ripen." This gives the reader a sense of the weather almost having a will of its own, which can be frustrating for farmers. They also use sensory language to describe the thunderstorm, which allows readers to almost feel the hail hitting them.