Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
"Here," he said crossly, "is ze pardon for Rob Fraser, and now let me
hear no more of Muckle John."

"Your Highness has acted wisely," said Castleleathers smoothly, and a
minute later took his leave.

Backwards and forwards tramped the Duke of Cumberland, his thoughts
deep again upon his departure for London and the brave times ahead.
Forgotten was all the hardship of the last few months--the poor fare
and dreary weather.  He was like a man saying a glad farewell to a
desolate country of savages.


"It is but half done," whispered Castleleathers to Miss Macpherson
when they stood once more upon the heather, "he has forgotten Rob and
is like a man eaten up with longing for the south.  I've seen such
before.  There is still Mackenzie.  He may be upon us any minute, and
what is it to be, the sword or a dunt upon the head."

"A Mackenzie," remarked Miss Macpherson, like to overflow with joy at
the pardon, "is neither here nor there, but what of the swarm?  You
may kill one bee, but dinna forget the hive."

"True," said Castleleathers, "which way will he come?"

"He will come by this very road--I doubt but we'll meet him any
minute."

It was long before they heard the sound of a horse thudding up the
glen, and very soon the squelch of its feet in the sodden ground.
Instantly they crouched by the way, and then as the horseman drew
level with them they raised their heads and took him in at a glance.
He was a very heavily built man, muffled up in a riding cloak and
with a bonnet upon his head.

"A Mackenzie if ever there was one," whispered Castleleathers, and
starting up came upon him from the slope of the hill and hauled him
off his beast so that he uttered one startled cry and sprawled in the
heather with his legs in the air.  In the same grim silence,
Castleleathers was upon his chest and with a dirk at his throat.

"Is it to be the quick passage," he whispered in Gaelic, "or do you
swear to do what is said?"

There was a long silence.

Mackenzie upon his back and helpless as a child was trying to see the
tartan of the man above him.

"Neil Mackenzie," said Castleleathers, "unless you forget what
brought you here this night, you are not like to remember it at all."

"Who are you?" gasped Mackenzie, trying to see the better.

"I," replied Castleleathers, "am Muckle John."

"Muckle John?"  He doubted it, but it was black darkness where they
lay amongst the heather.

"What of the affair Loch Carron way?" continued Castleleathers.  "You
came poorly enough out of that.  But I have a mind to end it this
time.  I am not a patient man and no one has dealings against me who
does not at last regret it."

"I will go back," said Mackenzie in a heavy tone like a man beaten
once and for all.

"You must tell your people that you are satisfied with the answer the
Duke has given you."

"I will--I swear it!"

Castleleathers drew back and leaped to his feet.

"Away then!" he said, "the road to the west lies clear.  But if you
so much as dream of treachery---no power can save you."

In silence Mackenzie caught his horse and mounting it took the road
for home, all the courage gone out of him.  All that night he rode,
and the next day, and when he reached Loch Carron he gave no word at
all, but bore the aspect of a man who fears to look over his shoulder
in the gloaming.

As for Castleleathers and Miss Macpherson, being both people over
middle life, they made their way stiffly homewards to an inn near
Fort Augustus.

It was over a basin of hot brose that he turned to her.

"I am past ploys like these," he said, "but it smacks of the old
days."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The Duke of Cumberland is crossly telling Castleleathers that he is pardoning Rob Fraser, and to not bring up Muckle John again. Castleleathers leaves, and the Duke of Cumberland is left to his thoughts. He is excited to be leaving for London, and forgets all the hardships of the past few months.
Castleleathers and Miss Macpherson are talking about their next move when they hear a horse coming. They hide, and when the horseman passes, they recognize him as a Mackenzie. Castleleathers tackles him and puts a knife to his throat. Mackenzie swears to go back and tell his people that he is satisfied with the Duke's answer. Castleleathers and Miss Macpherson make their way to an inn near Fort Augustus.