What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
No matter. Let us try to find it.

He took a knife and scraped the soft stone, to enlarge the crack,
removed the ashes and powdered cement which filled it up, and while
working thus to please me, he asked me what kind of a ring it was in the
same tone he would have asked me what I had been dreaming about.

It is a gold ring with a star formed of a large emerald, I replied,
with the coolness of certainty.

He no longer doubted, and detaching a rod from the window curtains, he
bent it in the form of a hook and reached the ring, which he smilingly
presented me. He thought without daring to say so, that it was a gift
from Madame dIonis. As for myself, I scarcely looked at it, so sure was
I that it was the same that I had seen on the finger of the ghost; it
was, in fact, exactly like it. I put it on my little finger, never
doubting that it belonged to the defunct demoiselle dIonis, or that I
had seen the ghost of that marvelous beauty.

Baptiste showed a great deal of discretion in his behavior, and when he
left me, made me promise to go to bed.

You can readily imagine such was far from my thoughts. I seated myself
before the table, from which Baptiste had removed the famous supper of
three loaves, and compelling myself to recall the details of my
transporting vision, some parts of which I feared I might forget, I
began to write a full account thereof, just as you have read it.

I remained in this state of agitation mingled with ecstasy, till the
rising of the sun. At times I dozed a little, my elbows on the table,
and thought I was again going through my dream; but it ever eluded me,
and Baptiste came and dragged me from the solitude in which I would have
gladly thenceforth have passed my life.

I arranged it so as to go down stairs, just as they were about to take
their places at the table. I had not yet asked myself how I was to give
an account of the vision; I thought of it while making believe
breakfast, for I ate nothing and without feeling wearied or ill, I
experienced an unconquerable disgust for the functions of animal life.

The dowager who did not see very well, was not aware of my trouble. I
answered her usual questions with the vagueness of the preceding days,
but this time without acting any comedy, and with the preoccupation of a
poet when questioned stupidly on the subject of his poem, and who gives
evasive and ironical replies to get rid of stultifying investigations. I
do not know if Madame dIonis was anxious or surprised to see me thus. I
did not look at her, I did not even see her. I hardly understood what
she was saying to me, during the mortal constraint of this breakfast.

At last I found myself alone in the library, awaiting her as on previous
days, but without any impatience whatever. Far from it, I felt a lively
satisfaction in sinking into a revery. The weather was admirable; the
sun kissed the trees and the blooming grounds beyond the large masses of
transparent shadows that were projected by the architecture of the
chateau on the nearest flowerbeds. I walked from one end of this vast
hall to the other, stopping each time that I found myself before the
fountain. The windows were closed and the curtains drawn on account of
the heat. These curtains were of a soft shade of blue that I tried to
imagine green, and in this artificial twilight which somewhat recalled
that of my vision, I experienced an incredible sensation of happiness,
and a species of delirious gayety.

I was talking aloud, and laughing without being aware of any cause, when
I felt some one seize me rather roughly by the arm. I turned around and
saw Madame dIonis, who had come in without my observing her.

Come, answer me, look at me at least, said she with some impatience.
Are you aware that you frighten me, and that I no longer know what to
think of you?

You have your wish, I answered, I have tampered with my reason, I
have become insane. But do not reproach yourself on that account; I am
much happier thus, and do not wish to be cured.

So, said she, scrutinizing me anxiously, this apparition is not then
an absurd story? At least, you thinkyou have seen it produced?

Better than I see you at this moment.

Dont affect such an air of stupid prideI do not doubt your words.
Tell me all about it quietly.

No, never! I implore you do not question me. I cannot, I do not wish to
answer.

Really the society of ghosts does not seem to agree with you, my dear
sir, and you will make me think that you have heard some singularly
flattering things, for you are as proud and discreet as a fortunate
lover.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the protagonist's mental state and to foreshadow the events to come. The author achieves this by having the protagonist act erratically and by having the other characters express concern for his mental health.