Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
"There she is," said one, suddenly lifting his head. "Ahead, and to
port."

"I see her," said the captain, peering down and shifting the wheel.

"You see, young man," he said to Felton, "we had to rise so suddenly to
dodge that turret top that we lost sight of her."

"Do you mean to say," answered Felton, cautiously, for he did not yet
understand the temper of these men, "that you can dodge _anything_?"

"We can dodge or outrun a shell, or anything else big enough to see.
But it was dark, and we didn't see that turret coming. It almost hit
us."

"What is your lifting power, captain?"

"The centrifugal force of the earth--partly, inconvenient in one
respect, for we rise at a tangent. We descend by its opposite and
balancing force, gravitation, which is more direct."

"How do you tap this centrifugal force?" asked the amazed Felton. "How
do you overcome gravitation?"

"Gravitation is only one phase of magnetism. In magnetism, repulsion
equals attraction. By reversing our polarity we are repelled from the
earth at the speed of a falling body, but, of course, at a tangent."

"It's beyond me," said Felton. "Of course, that tangent would take you
westward at the speed of the sun."

"In a succession of jumps--yes."

"But how do you change your polarity?" asked Felton, becoming
interested.

"There is your ship down there, nearly beneath us." And the interest
was crushed.

Felton looked down. The light was stronger now, and he could dimly see
on the surface beneath the indefinite outlines of a battleship toward
which the airship was heading. Not a light could be seen on her. Her
fires were quiet; not a flare shone from her funnels. Though there
was fighting at a distance, this craft was not engaged in it. Slowly,
from the lofty point of view, she moved along on a course that crossed
the course of the airship, and slowly the latter turned and followed,
soon dropping squarely in her wake--if such term may be used--a full
half-mile above. The engine now accelerated its speed, increasing its
volume of noise; and this noise must have been heard on the battleship.
A sudden illumination was seen--like a flash of heat lightning--then
came the singing of a projectile, and with it the report of the gun.

"Oh, fudge!" said the captain, gently and pityingly. "Go ahead, boys."

It was now light enough for Felton to examine the faces of these men.
To his surprise they were young, almost boyish. They were not in
uniform. Their dress and faces were as commonplace as could be found
in a factory; only the tall, thin young captain showing in voice and
expression the signs of study and thought. He twirled the wheel,
manipulated levers and valves within reach, and watched, downward
through the slits, the big craft beneath.

The sun was rising in the east, and Felton could make out the details
of the ship below--his own ship, with its familiar bridge, turrets,
and superstructure, and an enormous, gaping hole forward where once
had been the twelve-inch turret. Far to the south and east were other
ships, pursued and pursuing, but which was friend and which enemy he
could not make out. Warships, like bicycles, had become standardized.

A small, round shot was dropped over, and Felton watched it descend
until it disappeared from sight. But soon a scarcely perceptible splash
was seen--a little astern and to starboard, and the captain moved the
wheel and turned a lever. Another shot, or finder, went down, and
this splashed nearer. Then they lifted a pointed shell, vaned like a
dynamite projectile, held it poised until the captain gave the word,
and dropped it. It went down true as a plummet, and went out of sight.
But its effects were soon seen in an uplifting of the quarter-deck
close to the stern, and the rising of a cloud of yellow smoke.

"Nothing left of the steering gear," shuddered Felton. "Wonder how many
were killed in that--and the other."

A six-inch gun on the superstructure was barking away, and shells still
screamed upward, but none came near the airship.

"We'll silence that gun," the commander said, taking out his watch and
slightly changing the course and speed. "Stand by."

They poised another shell, and at the word "drop" down it went. The
commander pocketed his watch, and said: "Now for the rest of her; after
turret next."


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-The captain: tall, thin, young, with signs of study and thought in his voice and expression
-The crew: young, boyish, not in uniform, with commonplace faces
-Felton: amazed, interested