Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
May gol blyme! said the cockney. Es a rum cove. We cawnt always
win, yknow.

Harry with the long pseudonym removed his smoked glasses and stared at
Fay.

A bit o deck would help us out, he said coldly. Im wondering if we
make the connecting boat at Stavanger?

Fay glanced at his hot Scotch and lifted it as the two men strode toward
the door, through which they passed to the deck.

He allowed the thin shadow of a smile to cross his lips. He turned and
caught a reflection of himself in a long mirror. He studied this object
with concern. The flight of time, since last he had seen the
cardsharper, had wrought many changes in his appearance. He was
keener-faced and firmer of mouth. The silver-gray hair at his temples
was unnatural and gave him a youthful appearance due to contrast.

Stavanger, he said upending the glass and feeling the warmth of the
liquor. Ill remember that. Few Greeks go to that port. I wonder why
hes going there?

Greeks, in the argot of the underworld, were cardsharpers and
sure-thing manipulators. Fay despised their profession. He had an
abiding belief that a man had not lost all honor who would take a
strong-box or a long chance. There had been no chance in the sharpers
game. The meanest thief in the world, to him, was the professional
gambler.

He rose and closed his tweed coat with a quick motion. The ships bell
had struck two times, spaced close together. It was five oclock. The
Lowland Country must soon appear through the fog.

It came to him, as he stepped to the dark deck, that the one change in
the sharpers make-up was the smoked glasses. They were incongruous and
beetle-appearing. They struck a false note in a card game. Fay felt
dimly that there was a good reason for wearing them. He sensed a mystery
there. He revolved the matter in his mind and searched the deck for the
two. They had disappeared into a cabin. Most probably they were dividing
the wool shorn from the Yorkshire lamb.

A boswain, in souwester and oilskins, was heaving the lead from the
starboard chains of the foremast standing-rigging. He called the fathoms
with monotonous regularity. By the deep, four, rolled along the ship.
A bell clanged. A jingle sounded. The screw thrashed as the helm was
ported. A stumpy man, in smug pea-jacket, came out of the pilot-house,
and grasping a funnel stay, leaned far forward. He searched the yellow
fog which drifted athwart the bow. He whipped out a pair of
twelve-diameter glasses and focused them with his right thumb.

He turned his head, lowered the glasses and pointed toward a green buoy
which was passed close to starboard. This buoy bore the number 9 on
its side. The wheelman put up the wheel three spokes, then steadied the
ship. She groped on with careful searching until a mud spit ran beneath
the fog curtain and headed their course.

Up more, said the man in the pea-jacket. Hard up! he snapped with
British vim. All the way up, you!

The ship sheered like a frightened sow and lay broadside to the spit.
The screw thrashed. They wore around the point and started clamping down
a fog-shrouded channel which was lined with green buoys and gas flares.

The scent of fish and lowland marshes came over the water. The clank of
a hidden windmill sounded close to port. One gaunt arm pierced through
the veil and then was gone. The way ahead opened and revealed a vista of
smacks and crude wooden schooners. The veil dropped upon a scene that
Rembrandt would have fancied. Fay turned away and started toward his
cabin. They were reaching port. The passage from Dover had been made
without accident. It had been through a sea that had been stained red by
the blood of British seamen.

Sounds of commerce were on every hand as the Flushing bulled the air
with her Mersey-built siren. She glided over oily backwater and came to
a scant headway before the outlines of a high quay which was
half-revealed in the yellow light of lowland dawn.

Fay opened his door, stepped into the midship-cabin and sat down on his
unused bunk. He closed his eyes and reviewed the events of the passage.
He made note of a number of things which might have bearing on the
cipher quest. The commercial traveler had rounded out the importance of
the information Scotland Yard had sent him to obtain. This man from
Brixton was a forerunner in the great commercial war which was girding
the world. He was a scout and an outpost. After him would come a horde
of others. Devastated Belgium, Northern France and depleted Holland and
Germany were open markets. They had been glutted by the Great Struggle.
They were like stores from the shelves of which all staple goods had
been swept.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

The scene is set on a ship bound for Stavanger, Norway. Fay, a professional gambler, is aboard, and he is thinking about the two Greeks he met on the ship - cardsharps who are also on their way to Stavanger. He reflects on how they have changed since he last saw them, noting that the only difference is that they are now wearing smoked glasses. He wonders why they are going to Stavanger, and speculates that it is because few Greeks go there.
As the ship nears port, Fay is lost in thought, and he doesn't notice the man in the pea-jacket who is steering the ship. The man in the pea-jacket is focused on the task at hand, and he doesn't see the Greek cardsharps either. The ship hits a mud spit and starts to go off course, but the man in the pea-jacket steers it back on track.
Finally, the ship arrives in port and Fay goes to his cabin. He reflects on all that has happened during the voyage, and he makes a note of a few things that could be important for the cipher quest he is on.