Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
V


SCOT PASSES THE HAT

Through the throngs that crowded, not only the dilapidated sidewalks,
but also the street itself, Scot guided his brother deftly toward the
hotel. The whole appearance of the place was still higgledy-piggledy.
Men lived in tents, in dugouts, in prospect holes, in shacks built of
dry-goods boxes, canvas sacks, and brush. They cooked and ate as best
they could, while they went about their business of prospecting or
buying and selling feet[4] in what by courtesy were called mines.

-----

[4] In Virginia City mining interests were then sold by feet, and not by
shares.W. M. R.

-----

Well cut across this lot, the gambler suggested.

A mud-stained wagon with a dirty canvas top had been unhitched close to
the street. Two bony and dejected horses were tied to the wheels eating
some brush that they were trying to persuade themselves was hay.

Hugh commented on the broomtails. So thin they wont throw a shadow.

A moment later he was sorry, for as they rounded the wagon he saw a
woman and child crouched over a camp fire. They were cooking a stew. A
man sat on the wagon tongue smoking. He looked at the passing men out of
sullen, clouded eyes.

A voice from the sidewalk drifted to the brothers. Trouble, looks like.
Sam Dutch has got Red Mike backed up against the bar of the Mile High,
and hes tryin to devil him into drawing a six-shooter.

On the heels of the words there came the sound of a shot, followed by a
second. A swift trampling of many feet, and the side door of the Mile
High burst open. Men poured out of it as seeds are squirted from a
pressed lemon. They dived in every direction to escape. After them came
a single man, bare-headed, a revolver in his hand. He looked wildly
round, then fled to the shelter of the wagon for safety. A huge fellow,
bellowing like a bull, tore out of the saloon in pursuit.

An ironclad rule of the old fighting West is that every quarrel is a
private one. No outsider has any right to interfere. Under ordinary
conditions, the first impulse of the McClintocks would have been to dive
for cover. The West considers it no reflection on a mans courage for
him to sing small when guns are out to settle a difference of opinion
which is no concern of his.

The McClintocks, as though moved by the same spring, wheeled in their
tracks and ran back to the wagon. The man on the tongue was disappearing
into the bed through the opening in the canvas. But the woman and the
little girl, terror-stricken, stood spellbound beside the fire. Pursued
and pursuer were charging straight toward them. A bullet struck with a
metallic clang the iron pot in the live coals. The child screamed.

Roughly the woman and the little girl went down at the same instant,
flung to the ground by the impact of flying bodies. They heard more
shots, but they knew nothing of what was going on. For the McClintock
brothers were crouched above them, shielding them from the danger of
wild bullets. They did not see the red-headed man stumble and pitch
forward, nor did they see the big ruffian at his heels fling shot after
shot into his prostrate form.

Hugh released his weight from the child, and lifted her to her feet in
such a way that her face was turned from the tragedy.

Run right along into the wagon where yore dad is, lil girl, and dont
turn yore head, he said, and his voice was very gentle.

She moved forward, whimpering as she went, and climbed to the wagon
tongue. But, just as she was about to vanish inside, curiosity or some
other impulse swung round her black and shaggy little head. Big dark
eyes fastened on Hugh, then moved past him to the awful thing she was to
see in her dreams for many a night. A man, red-haired and red-bearded,
lay face up on the ground, sightless eyes staring up at the blue sky. A
second man straddled the body with brutal triumph, a big slouchy fellow
with coarse tawny hair reaching to his neck, and sandy whiskers tied
under his chin. He wore a brown Peruvian hat, a blue army overcoat with
a cape, and a woollen shirt. From his bootleg a horn-handled bowie knife
projected.

Wanted to be chief,[5] eh? the murderer jeered in a heavy overbearing
voice. Therell be only one chief in Virginia while Sam Dutch is here.
If any one else wants the job, hell gets his like Red Mike did. He
shuffled away, Spanish spurs jingling, slouching and slow of movement.
His gestures were heavy, except when shooting. No bad man in Washoe was
quicker on the draw.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with two men, Scot and Hugh McClintock, walking through the crowded streets of Virginia City. They pass a wagon where a woman and child are cooking a stew over a campfire. A man sits on the wagon tongue smoking. The brothers comment on the thinness of the horses and the broomtails. They continue walking and hear a voice from the sidewalk drift to them, saying that there is trouble at the Mile High Saloon. A moment later, they hear the sound of a shot, followed by a second. They see men pouring out of the Mile High Saloon, followed by a single man with a revolver in his hand. The man runs to the shelter of the wagon for safety. A huge fellow, bellowing like a bull, runs out of the saloon in pursuit. The McClintock brothers run back to the wagon. The man on the tongue is disappearing into the bed through the opening in the canvas. The woman and the little girl, terror-stricken, stand spellbound beside the fire. The McClintock brothers crouch above them, shielding them from the danger of wild bullets. They do not see the red-headed man stumble and pitch forward, nor do they see the big ruffian at his heels fling shot after shot into his prostrate form. Hugh releases his weight from the child, and lifts her to her feet in such a way that her face is turned from the tragedy. He tells her to run into the wagon where her dad is and not to turn her head. She moves forward, whimpering as she goes, and climbs to the wagon tongue. But, just as she is about to vanish inside, curiosity or some other impulse swings round her black and shaggy little head. Big dark eyes fasten on Hugh, then move past him to the awful thing she is to see in her dreams for many a night. A man, red-haired and red-bearded, lay face up on the ground, sightless eyes staring up at the blue sky. A second man straddles the body with brutal triumph, a big slouchy fellow with coarse tawny hair reaching to his neck, and sandy whiskers tied under his chin. He wears a brown Peruvian hat, a blue army overcoat with a cape, and a woollen shirt. From his bootleg a horn-handled bowie knife projected. The murderer jeers in a heavy overbearing voice. He shuffles away, Spanish spurs jingling, slouching and slow of movement. His gestures were heavy, except when shooting. No bad man in Washoe was quicker on the draw.