Write a short summary of the following scene as a list. Include details such as dialog, tone, action beats, setting, and more.


SCENE:
XVIII

THE WHISTLE OF THE BANSHEE

In the greyness of the dawn Muckle John called a halt.

"Rob," he said, "here is the day and only a mile covered since last
night.  Ye ken what that means?  Within a few hours reinforcements
will arrive from Fort Augustus, they will find the body of
Strange--what must follow then?"

Rob shook his head.  Escape seemed impossible.

"And yet," said Muckle John, "there must be a way--there's always a
way, Rob, if you give your mind to it.  There is no prison that
cannot be broken, no wall that cannot be scaled--with luck and a cool
head.  I know, Rob, for have I not done it time and again?  But I've
always had a sound pair of legs.  Let us look at the situation, Rob.
Within an hour or two this country-side will be hotching with
red-coats.  They think the Prince is hereabouts.  Now I cannot cover
half a mile in that time, and there is no cover worth thinking about.
Nor is the ground marshy or I could lie hid to my nose until it was
night.  But there is a way, Rob...."

He paused and fingered his ankle very tenderly, muffling a strip of
his shirt tightly round it.

"Over the knoll there, Rob, is a ruined castle, little enough of it
left now to be sure, but there are four walls, a huddle of stones
upon the roof, and a burial-place."

"A burial place?"

"Aye, but there's no harm in that.  There was a chief of the Macraes
buried there, he was a very queer man it is said, but it's long since
I looked at his stone.  No one ever goes near it after dark, Rob, and
mind ye I'm no just hankering after it mysel'."

"But surely they will search the place?"

"Rob," said Muckle John cannily, "there's searching and searching.
There's a deal in hiding where folk do not look for ye."

Again they started laboriously on, Muckle John leaning upon Rob's
shoulder and supporting himself with a rough crutch hewn from a tree
upon the hill-side.  Just over the knoll they saw the grey stones of
the old stronghold Muckle John had spoken of, a poor enough refuge to
all appearances, and certainly one not likely to be overlooked by the
soldiers.

Inside the walls the grass was long and rank and in the midst of the
grass stood a slab of granite upon four other slabs, making a square
memorial very moss-covered and decayed, marking the burial-place of
the Macrae.

Opposite it in the wall was a great open chimney-stack.  To this
Muckle John limped, and staring upwards beckoned to Rob.

"See here," he said, "there is about three feet up a place in the
wall large enough for a small man to lie hid.  You cannot see it for
a very good reason, but it's a bonny spot to hide.  Come, Rob, upon
my shoulders--there's not a moment to lose."

"But what of you?" asked Rob.

"Up," said Muckle John, "I see them on the brow of the hill."

"No," said Rob, "I will not go until..."

But he had time for no more for Muckle John had him by the throat and
was squeezing the very life out of him.

"Dinna clash words with me--you Fraser loon," he snarled, "up ye go
or I'll break your neck."

After that Rob was only too ready to get out of reach of those
terrible arms.

In the chimney-stack, just as Muckle John had said, there was a place
very cunningly hollowed so as to be invisible from below, where a man
looking upward saw only a square patch of sky and the broken masonry
that fringed the top.

Crouching doubled up with his head upon his knees, he listened for a
word from Muckle John.  But none came.  All he heard was a curious
shuffling and a noise like the shutting of a door.

Suddenly, it seemed about a mile distant, a bugle sounded, and very
faintly there drifted to him the echo of a shout.


SHORT SUMMARY AS LIST:

==========

- Muckle John and Rob are on the run from the red-coats
- They take refuge in a ruined castle
- Muckle John tells Rob to hide in the chimney-stack and he does
- The red-coats arrive and begin searching the castle
- Muckle John distracts them by making noise at the other end of the castle
- Rob is safe and the red-coats leave