What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Here is the explanation of this paradox.  It was Archie's custom to
spend his forenoons looking for something to do, and his evenings
walking in the suburbs.

Poor, lonely lad, that never a soul in the city cared for, any more
than if he had been a stray cat, he found it wearisome,
heart-breaking work wandering about the narrow, twisting streets and
getting civilly snubbed.  He felt more of a gentleman when dining.
Afterwards his tiredness quite left him, and hope swelled his heart
once more.  So out he would go and away--somewhere, anywhere; it did
not matter so long as he could see woods, and water, and houses.  Oh,
such lovely suburban villas, with cool verandahs, round which
flowering creepers twined, and lawns shaded by dark green waving
banana trees, beneath which he could ofttimes hear the voices of
merry children, or the tinkle of the light guitar.  He would give
reins to his fancy then, and imagine things--such sweet things!

Yes, he would own one of the biggest and most delightful of these
mansions; he should keep fleet horses, a beautiful carriage, a
boat--he must have a boat, or should it be a gondola?  Yes, that
would be nicer and newer.  In this boat, when the moonlight silvered
the water, he would glide over the bay, returning early to his happy
home.  His bonnie sister should be there, his brother Rupert--the
student--his mother, and his hero, that honest, bluff, old father of
his.  What a dear, delightful dream!  No wonder he did not care to
return to the realities of his city life till long after the sun had
set over the hills, and the stars were twinkling down brighter and
lovelier far than those lights he had so admired the night his ship
arrived.

He was returning slowly one evening and was close to the city, but in
a rather lonely place, when he noticed something dark under the shade
of a tree, and heard a girl's voice say:

"Dearie me! as missus says; but ain't I jolly tired just!"

"Who is that?" said Archie.

"On'y me, sir; on'y Sarah.  Don't be afear'd.  I ain't a larrikin.
Help this 'ere box on my back like a good chummie."

"It's too heavy for your slight shoulders," quoth gallant Archie.  "I
don't mind carrying it a bit."

"What, a gent like you!  Why, sir, you're greener than they make 'em
round here!"

"I'm from England."

"Ho, ho!  Well, that accounts for the milk.  So 'm I from Hengland.
This way, chummie."

They hadn't far to go.

"My missus lives two story up, top of a ware'us, and I've been to the
station for that 'ere box.  She do take it out o' me for all the
wage.  She do."

Archie carried the box up the steep stairs, and Sarah's mistress
herself opened the door and held a candle.  A thin, weary-looking
body, with whom Sarah seemed to be on the best and most friendly
terms.

"Brought my young man," said Sarah.  "Ain't he a smartie?  But,
heigho! so green!  You never!"

"Come in a minute, sir, and rest you.  Never mind this silly girl."

Archie did go in a minute; five, ten, ay fifteen, and by that time he
had not only heard all this ex-policeman's wife's story, but taken a
semi-attic belonging to her.

And he felt downright independent and happy when next day he took
possession.

For now he would have time to really look round, and it was a relief
to his mind that he would not be spending much money.

Archie could write home cheerfully now.  He was sure that something
would soon turn up, something he could accept, and which would not be
derogatory to the son of a Northumbrian squire.  More than one
influential member of commercial society had promised "to communicate
with him at the very earliest moment."

But, alas! weeks flew by, and weeks went into months, and no more
signs of the something were apparent than he had seen on the second
day of his arrival.

Archie was undoubtedly "a game un," as Sarah called him; but his
heart began to feel very heavy indeed.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish Archie's character and to provide background information on his current situation. The author achieves this by having Archie interact with Sarah and her mistress, revealing his kind and gentlemanly nature. Additionally, the details of his living situation and his struggles to find work are described, painting a picture of his current predicament.