Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Allow me, my dear father, I replied with firmness, to inform you that
slight appearances will not be sufficient to make me share your doubts.
Without considering M. le comte dAillanes well-established reputation,
I have the evidence of certain testimony in his favor.

I paused, while reflecting that this testimony of my sublime and
mysterious friend, was something I would be unable to bring forward
without being laughed at. It was nevertheless so serious a consideration
with me, that nothing in the world, not even apparent facts, could make
me doubt it.

I know of what testimony you speak, said my father, Madame dIonis
has a great affection.

I hardly know Madame dIonis! interrupted young dAillane quickly.

And I am not speaking of you, monsieur, my father smilingly replied.
I am speaking of Count dAillane and of mademoiselle his daughter.

And I, father, said I, in my turn, I was not speaking of Madame
dIonis.

May one ask, said young dAillane, the name of the person who has had
this fortunate influence over you, so that I may know to whom I owe my
gratitude?

With your permission, monsieur, I would prefer not to tell you, this is
something that concerns myself alone.

The young captain begged my pardon for being so indiscreet, took leave
of my father rather coldly, and retired, expressing his gratitude to me
for my good will.

I followed him to the street door, as if out of politeness. There he
again gave me his hand; this time I withdrew mine and begged him to come
for one moment into my room which opened on to the vestibule. I once
more declared that I was convinced of the nobility of his fathers
sentiments, and thoroughly determined not to cast the slightest
aspersion on the honor of his family. After which I said:

As this matter is settled, monsieur, you will permit me to ask you why
you should have insulted me, by doubting my pride so far as to threaten
me with your resentment. If I have not done so before my father, who
seemed to urge me on, it was because I knew that when his feeling of
anger will have passed away, he would consider himself the most
unfortunate of men. I have also a very tender mother, and for this
reason I ask you to keep our explanation here a secret. Charged with the
interests of Madame dIonis, I plead her cause to-morrow; I beg of you
then, to grant on the following day, after leaving the palace, the
meeting that I now ask of you.

No, _parbleu_! I will do nothing of the kind, cried the young man,
throwing his arms around my neck. I havent the least desire to kill a
fellow who has shown so much feeling and justice towards me. I was
wrong, I acted without reason, and I am now quite ready to beg your
pardon.

That is altogether useless, monsieur, for you were forgiven before. In
my position, one is exposed to such offenses, and they do not affect an
honest man, but there is none the less necessity for me to fight you.

_Ouida! Et pourquoi diable_, after having begged your pardon?

Because that has been done in private, and your visit has been public.
There is your horse pawing the ground at our door, and your soldier in
uniform, attracting the attention of everyone. You know very well what a
little provincial town is. In one hour from now, all the world will know
that a brilliant officer has been here to threaten a little lawyer, who
is conducting a suit against him, and you may be pretty sure that,
to-morrow, when I shall have observed for you and yours all the
consideration I look upon as your due, more than one malicious soul will
accuse me of being afraid of you, and will laugh at the contemptible
figure I will cut beside you. I resign myself to this humiliation, but
this duty accomplished, I will have another to fulfill which will be to
prove that I am no coward, unworthy of practicing an honorable
profession, and capable of betraying the confidence of my clients
through fear of a sword thrust. Consider that I am very young, monsieur,
that I have a character to establish, now or never.

You make me realize my mistake, answered M. dAillane. I did not
appreciate the importance of my behavior, and I owe you a formal avowal
in public.

It will be too late, after my speech, they will always believe that I
have yielded to fear; and it will be too soon before; they might think
that you feared my revelations.

Then I see there is no way out of this difficulty, and that all I can
do for you, is to give you the satisfaction that you require. Depend
upon my word and my silence. On leaving the palace to-morrow, you will
find me at whatever place you may appoint.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the young d'Aillane speaking to the protagonist's father about his daughter. He says that he is sure of her innocence and that he will not let anything stand in the way of her happiness. The father replies that he knows of d'Aillane's reputation and that he trusts him. The protagonist then interrupts, saying that she knows of certain testimony in d'Aillane's favor that she cannot reveal without being laughed at. However, she says, this testimony is so serious to her that she is convinced of his innocence despite appearances.
The young d'Aillane asks who this testimony is from, and the protagonist replies that she would rather not say. He then takes his leave, but she asks him to come back into her room for a moment. There, she tells him that she is convinced of his innocence and that she is determined to fight for him. However, she says, he must grant her a meeting the following day so that she can prove her courage.
D'Aillane agrees, and they part ways.