Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
IV

_A Hairy Intruder_


Tensed up as they were, having undergone terrible physical stress
under fear of impending death, the men needed that feeble joke as
an excuse to let down. They roared with laughter, as if it had been
brilliantly witty, or even the broadest slapstick gag. They repeated it
with variations and comic embroidery till they were emotionally spent,
completely relaxed.

Finally, someone made the obvious point that if they were to surprise
Dacres on his return, then they must prepare to survive the intervening
days.

Sobered, under Strike's leadership, they began to assess their
situation.

Outside, the terrain of Triton was bleakly unrelieved in the dim light,
seemingly of volcanic origin. There was an occasional tree, squat and
massive and spiny. Hoar frost coated the hollows, and a gusty wind
whistled thinly.

With quiet efficiency, the men went about their duties, thrusting
delicate instruments through the special valves, testing temperature,
pressure, analyzing the atmosphere. Strike took one look at the
thermometer and shivered.

"I don't believe it," he declared.

"Oxygen out there, all right," Kranz, working with the air sample,
announced with satisfaction. "Trace of hydrogen. Trace of water vapor."
Then after an interval, "Oh-oh. Chlorine, too. Not much, though. Be
easy to adjust the filters on our pressure suits to take care of it....
Couple of inert gases, nothing harmful." He looked up.

Gerry and Strike traded glances.

"Good as could be expected," Strike said. "Naturally the gravity would
hold a substantial atmospheric envelope. Shall we stroll about the yard
and meet the neighbors?"

They drew lots for the six space-suits, and presently the winners
poured out upon the surface of Triton like school children at recess.
McCray and Kranz promptly staggered tipsily and fell down. Strike and
the other men lurched and scrambled and finally remained upright in
very weird positions, as if leaning against a gale. They all looked
about in amazed bewilderment except Gerry, who was convulsed in
unseemly merriment.

Strike inspected the landscape, which was apparently quite flat, then
tried to understand why everyone acted as if standing on a hillside. He
borrowed an apt phrase from McCray's vocabulary.

"I don't get it," he said.

"Another item I forgot to mention," Gerry explained. "One of Triton's
more amusing properties. 'Down' is not perpendicular to the ground,
except at the poles and the equator! Evidently, you didn't land quite
at the equator, though you came close enough. The phenomenon isn't so
noticeable in the lifeboat because it's already lying at an angle.
Incidentally, a trip from the poles to the equator would be downhill
all the way!"

"Aren't you the cute one, though," Strike growled.

He thought about this strange state of affairs, and had an awful vision
of Triton slowly breaking up, with everything rolling down from its two
poles till there was nothing left but an equator, spinning solemnly
through the heavens like a runaway wheel.

To rid himself of this nightmare, he became very businesslike, dividing
the castaways into groups for a general stock-taking. Exploration of
the immediate vicinity was not encouraging. There was very little
surface moisture, and drilling for water was of course out of the
question. A kettle of melted frost, painfully gathered, proved potable,
after boiling had driven off the chlorine.

The air was breathable through filter-masks, though cold as a
knife-blade in the lungs. McCray, excited as a boy over the new
experiences, tried spitting, and was delighted to find the result
turned to icicles before reaching the ground. He abandoned his fun,
however, when his lips froze together painfully.

Food, either animal or vegetable, there seemed to be none. This worried
Strike.

"There's a lockerful of concentrates," he said, "but they won't last
nine of us too long. We can only hope friend Dacres doesn't wait too
long before returning to check on us."


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-The men, after surviving a physical and emotional ordeal, must now prepare to survive on the surface of Triton.
-They assess their situation and find that the environment is not hospitable.
-They divide into groups and begin exploring their surroundings.
-They find no food or water, and Strike begins to worry.
-They can only hope that Dacres returns soon.