Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
The sequel to this particular story is a short one. The young man
revived with the change of a single nutritious meal, and with it
returned the courage of even the trodden worm; for he now stoutly told
the Spiritual Professor that, unless he furnished him with ample means
to support life, he would not touch an another figure of the immense
and complicated calculations on which he had been so long engaged.

[2] Incredible as it may seem, we pledge our personal veracity that
this bald and silly narration, which appears to be merely a foolish
burlesque, is a _bona fide_, _et literatim_, _et punctuatim_,
transcript, as close as it is possible for memory to furnish, of
stories that were, at least as often as five days out of the seven,
related at the dinner-table at which Boanerges presided, to long
double lines of gaping women, who, obedient to the irresistible
spell he bore, had followed up this maudlin Proteus of Professors,
as disciples of water-cure, through his latest metamorphoses, into
physician of such an establishment in Boston. It was _thus_ he
exhorted them to faith, and encouraged his backsliders.

The Professor, of course, resisted to the last, and quoted the
correspondences upon him, with desperate fluency. But when the young
man coolly seized the manuscript on the table before him, and held it
over the flickering flame of the miserable dip candle, which had now
been of necessity lighted, the Professor sprang forward to arrest his
hand, shrieking

I will! I will! for Gods sake, stop!how much do you want?

Five dollars a week! was the cold response, as the flame caught the
edges of the paper.

Ill give it! Ill give it! What fearful extravagance! My God! put it
out!

Pay me five dollars at once, said the other.

Here it ishere it is! and he jerked, in his excitement, from his
pocket, a dozen gold-pieces of that value, and dashed them upon the
table.

Take your five dollars! put it out!

The young man quietly swept the pieces within his reach into a drawer,
which he at the same moment opened; and, extinguishing the margin of
the manuscript, which had burned slowly from its thickness, he replied
deliberately to the Professor, who had shrieked out

Do you mean to rob me?

No, sir! but I mean to keep this money, and if you approach me, I
shall destroy this manuscript if it cost me my life. You have starved
and outraged me long enough; you expect to make a fortune off my
labors, and kill me with famine just as my work is done. But with all
my humility, abstraction and patience, this is too much! I am roused at
last, in self-defence, and you shall find it so!

The Professor sank into a chair as if fainting, and for some moments
continued to mutter, with more than the magnanimity of a sick kitten

To think! Robbed! All my generosity! The ruffian! Here, to my very
face! What have I gained by saving him?

This last expression was gasped out, as if the vital breath of the
speaker was passing in the final spasm.

The scene need not be prolonged. The valorous Professor crept away,
cowed beneath the cold, firm, lustrous eye of the now aggressive
victim, whose enthusiasm for science and earnest self-dedication, had
heretofore kept him blinded to a full realisation of all the monstrous
iniquity which had so long been practised upon his abstracted, meek,
and uncomplaining nature. He now determined to take his life into his
own hands, and saw clearly through all the shallow and ridiculous
pretence of patronage and saving, by which his single-hearted fervor
had been beguiled.

In a few days it was announced to the Professor, whose faith and
spiritual strengththe same that had scared off the wolves when he fell
among themhad in the interval been restored to their equilibrium, that
the great work was now completed, and the announcement was accompanied
by a proposition on the part of the young mathematician to sell out
to him entire his copyright share in the whole enterprise, at a price
so comparatively insignificant, when the Professors own florid
anticipations of future results were considered, that he sprang at the
offer eagerly, and thus possessed himself at once of the golden goose.

The young mathematician disappeared, and the Professor was left
exulting in the sole possession of what seemed to him, in vision, the
nearest representative of the gold of Ophir, not to speak of California.

The idea of the young mathematician was, in itself, a practical one,
and seemed rationally conceived.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

The scene opens with the young mathematician telling the Spiritual Professor that unless he is given enough money to support himself, he will not continue working on the complicated calculations the Professor has been engaged in. The Professor resists at first, but when the young man threatens to destroy the manuscript, the Professor agrees to give him five dollars a week. The young man takes the money and leaves, warning the Professor that if he tries to approach him, he will destroy the manuscript. The Professor is left alone, muttering to himself in disbelief that he has been robbed.