What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
"Aye, and speak up for an old man, Rob, whose havers may be
misinterpreted, ye ken.  What is it ye will answer, Rob?"

"That you called your son, the Master, an unscrupulous rebel," he
replied.

Lovat nodded his great head approvingly.

"Bonny it sounds.  That'll make the House o' Peers sit up.  We'll
carry it with silver hairs and injured innocence, Rob--an auld man,
my lords, near doited with years and sorrow."

He paused, and the look of fear twisted his features once again.

"It would look better to bide here," said he, in a mutter to himself,
and so, with a pinch of snuff, he turned towards the door again.  But
a moment later he was back, and this time his limbs fairly shook with
fear.

"No, no!" he gasped, one gout swollen hand upon his breast.  "I canna
wait here like an auld maimed dog.  There are places I can bide until
arrangements can be made.  Quick, boy--saddle a horse and let us go."

"The horses are all gone, my lord," said Rob.

"All gone?  So that is how they treat me.  Then we must walk until we
find one.  Surely my people will help their chief."

"There is a pony, your lordship," cried Rob, and going to the stable
he led out the powerful little beast.

Shuffling back to the house, Lovat crept up the creaking stairway and
returned some minutes later with his strong box.

"Fasten it behind the saddle, Rob," he said, "or better still can I
trust ye to carry it?"

He stood for a moment glooming at the ground and then begun to hunt
amongst his pockets for a piece of paper which, when he had found it,
he read most carefully and tittered in a strange falsetto manner to
himself.

Then taking a silver whistle from his waistcoat he blew it three
times and took to breathing upon his frozen fingers.

From the heather a hundred yards up the glen two men had risen at the
first note, and came running towards them--long-haired, ragged
gillies, Fraser by their tartan.  They stood a little way from Lovat,
watching him like dogs ready for the trail.  The frost of their night
watch stood upon their bonnets and their beards were stiff and
glistening.  Waving Rob aside Lovat began to speak to them in a low
tone, but before he had said more than a dozen words his voice rose
to a scream through the influence of some private passion, and he
menaced them in Gaelic so that they quailed before his clenched fist.
But as suddenly his voice dropped and he caressed them, patting their
cheeks and then dismissing them, stood panting beside Rob--all the
fire gone--once more just an old sick man.

Very slowly he clambered upon the pony, and so they started and began
to pass the cluster of huts near Gortuleg.  The frightened people
trooped out of their doors to see their chief go by, and a dozen
Frasers armed with muskets and swords gathered about him and trudged
in silence towards the west.

At the corner of the brae Lovat turned and looked back on Gortuleg.
Beneath his bullying, tyrannical, shifty character there was a kind
of bedrock of that highly coloured sentiment that is akin to
melodrama.  He played to the gallery with infinite zest and genuine
enjoyment.  It was a nice pose to combat the diminishing power of the
chieftainship--where force was a dangerous weapon, sentiment was
often a two-edged sword.

"Farewell," he said, in his deep voice and with honest tears in his
eyes, "for maybe I shall never see you again."

It did not matter that the house was not his, nor an imposing
habitation at the best of times.  All that mattered was that he was
at the turn of the brae, going downward--an exiled chief.  Fully
conscious that the setting was saga-like the clansmen set up a
piteous lamentation, and bowing his great head Lovat motioned them
on, and the journey continued.  And in this fashion after many weary
hours they reached Loch Muilzie in Glenstrathfarar and for the time
being considered themselves in safety.


Far away, dimly discernible in that wilderness of heather, two men
were running like wolves on the trail--two men with dirks by their
sides, and death in their hearts--running tirelessly.  On the
outskirts of the Fraser country they passed another man who was
watching the pass and without a word he joined them--three men
running in single file, bending double in open places--heading for
Knoidart.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the character of Lovat and to set up the conflict that will drive the rest of the story. Lovat is shown to be a complex character--he is capable of both great cruelty and great sentimentality. He is also shown to be a master manipulator, able to play on the emotions of those around him.
The conflict that is established is between Lovat and his son, the Master. Lovat is shown to be a rebel, while the Master is shown to be an upstanding member of society. This conflict will drive the rest of the story as Lovat tries to regain his power and position.