Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Rob was puzzled by the note of suggestion in his speech.  Had Strange
the map or not?  If not, had Muckle John taken it?  If Strange had it
what was to be gained by such words?  Would he not take it to the
Duke at once?

He glanced quickly at the man facing him.  In his eyes he read
avarice, cruelty, and cunning.

"If I hand you the paper," said Rob, "what do you propose to do?
Would you give it to the Duke?"

Strange checked a smile.

"That depends," said he, "for between ourselves, where the eagle
feeds there's poor pickings for the other birds.  The truth is, Rob,
there are some things you could tell me, and in return I'd do a deal
more for you, for I am no an ungenerous man, and it's a dreary
prospect, the gibbet."

"It is all that," rejoined Rob, "but I cannot promise until I hear
what you want to know."

"That's mair reasonable, Rob--I knew ye were not the foolish ninny
that they took ye for.  Now listen, Rob; if you will disclose the
hiding-place of Lovat and Archibald Cameron, and help us to lay
Muckle John by the heels--in return I will see that you are free this
very night, and mair, I will no forget ye when the treasure is come
to light o' day."

Rob turned sick at the words, but to learn more he simulated interest
and nodded his head doubtfully.

"But the Prince," said he.

"In return for Lovat I will spare the Prince."

"You?"

"Who else, for if you consent none but I will ever see the document
and its particulars."

"And you will keep the gold?"

Strange winked at that.

"We two, Rob," said he with a smile.

Then Rob, knowing all and realizing that Muckle John must have the
dispatch, rose to his feet.

"Whether I have been a scapegoat or not," he said, "I have only
myself to blame; and let me tell you at once, Captain Strange or
Macaulay, or whatever your dirty name may be, that nothing can save
me from the hangman's noose; neither you with all your promises nor
anything else, for I have not the paper you want," and he waited for
the storm to burst.

But the smile never died from the other's lips.

"Weel I know that, Rob," said he, "for I have it safe here," and he
drew the package, still sealed, from his coat pocket.

With a cry of rage Rob rushed at him, but the chains about his legs
tripped him up, and Strange, stepping aside with a snarl, took him by
the shoulder and flung him violently to the other end of the room.

"Down!" he cried, "or I will pistol you."  In a grim silence he
thrust the package back into his pocket.

"Ye see, I hold the cards," he said in a malignant voice.  "And now
is it to be a dislocated neck and your dead body the prey of
corbies--or the salvation of your Prince, a share in the gold, and
the taking of Lovat, which is inevitable in any case, and that of
Cameron, which is only a question of time?  Neither will suffer the
extreme penalty, for Lovat is an old man who has sat at home, and
Cameron is a doctor and was no at Culloden at all.  As for Muckle
John, I will tell ye why he made such a lot o' ye."

"No, no!" cried Rob.

"Whisht!  Dinna take on so.  Once a blind fool and never again,
surely.  But did ye think Muckle John risked his life just for love
o' ye, Rob?  Heaven preserve us--he was after..."

"I know," said Rob, "but say no more.  I'll tell the Duke you have
the paper and throw myself on his mercy."

Strange uttered a shrill cackle of laughter.

"Tell the Duke, Rob!  Oh, that's fine hearing.  Mercy!  It's little
mercy ye'll get frae him.  No, no!  I'll hand it him myself, thank
ye.  Perhaps ye thought I was like your Muckle John, and playing for
my ain hand.  You're uncommon green, Rob, but Jerry Strange is no
taken so doucely.  Jerry is honest as the day, Rob--so come along and
see me hand it into the Duke's royal fingers.  It'll mak' gran'
hearing, Rob, and there'll be sair confusion amongst the rebels now,"
and flinging open the door he drew his prisoner with him into the
passage.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of menace and cruelty. The point of view is from Rob's perspective, and the tone is one of fear and desperation.