What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
FOUR

The Last Man


West stood silently at the bottom of the stairs. The room was too dark
to see anything, but the voice was coming from somewhere near the
table's end, close to the lighted painting.

I may have to kill him, West was thinking, and I must know where he is.
For the first shot has to do it, there'll be no time for a second.

"Rosie had no mind," the voice said out in the darkness. "That is, no
mind to speak of. But she was telepathic. Her brain picked up thoughts
and passed them on. And she could obey simple commands. Very simple
commands. And killing a man is so simple, Mr. West.

"Rosie stood here beside me and I knew every word that you and Belden
said. I did not blame you, West, for you had no way of knowing what you
did. But I did blame Belden and I sent Rosie up to get him.

"There's only one thing, West, that I hold against you. You should
not have killed Rosie. That was a great mistake, West, a very great
mistake."

"It was no mistake," said West. "I did it on purpose."

"Take it easy, Mr. West," said Cartwright. "Don't do anything that
might make me pull the trigger. Because I have a gun on you. Dead
center on you, West, and I never miss."

"I'll give you odds," said West, "that I can get you before you can
pull the trigger."

"Now, Mr. West," said Cartwright, "let's not get hot-headed about this.
Sure, you pulled a fast one on us. You tried to muscle in and you
almost sold us, although eventually we would have tripped you up. And
I admire your guts. Maybe we can work it out so no one will get killed."

"Start talking," West told him.

"It was too bad about Rosie," said Cartwright, "and I really hold that
against you, West, for we could have used Rosie to good advantage. But
after all, the work is started on the other planets and we still have
Stella. Our students are well grounded ... they can get along without
instructions for a little while and maybe by the time we need to get in
contact with them again we can find another one to replace our Rosie."

"Quit wandering around," said West. "Let's hear what you have in mind."

"Well," said Cartwright, "we're getting awfully short-handed. Belden's
dead and Darling's dead and if Robertson isn't dead by now he will be
very shortly. For after he took Stella to Earth, he tried to desert,
tried to run away. And that would never do, of course. He might tell
folks about us and we can't let anyone do that. For we are dead, you
see...."

He chuckled, the chuckle rolling through the darkness.

"It was a masterpiece, West, that broadcast. I was the last man alive
and I told them what had happened. I told them the spacetime continuum
had ruptured and things were coming through. And I gurgled ... I
gurgled just before I died."

"You didn't really die, of course," West said, innocently.

"Hell, no. But they think I did. And they still wake up screaming,
thinking how I must have died."

Ham, thought West. Pure, unadulterated ham. A jokester who would maroon
a man to die on a lonely moon. A man who held a gun in his fist while
he bragged about the things he'd done ... about how he had outwitted
Earth.

"You see," said Cartwright, "I had to make them believe that it really
happened. I had to make it so horrible that the government would never
make it public, so horrible they'd close the planet with an iron-tight
ban."

"You had to be alone," said West.

"That's right, West. We had to be alone."

"Well," said West. "You've almost got it now. There's only two of you
alive."

"The two of us," Cartwright said, "and you."

"You forget, Cartwright," said West. "You're going to kill me. You've
got a gun pointed at me and you're all set to pull the trigger."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to reveal the villain's plan to the hero, and to establish the hero's resolve to stop the villain.