Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Such as it is, this immense hall is used both as council chamber and
banqueting-hall, and I must say that, communicating with the gallery of
the palace and the Great Hall of the castle, it serves its double
purpose well enough.

The palace meets the castle in the middle, so that the combined edifice
has the shape of a T. It crowns a hill which towers over the town, and
falls away sheer at the foot of the castle, but in a gentle slope behind
the palace. The Melna passes through the town and winds round the castle
in a gorge, a hundred feet deep or so, before glancing off to bound the
French garden, which stretches behind the palace.

On the town side, leading up to the ducal residence, is a huge open
space, again recalling Versailles. It is also the parade ground, where
all reviews are held. A gilded railing starts from the left wing of the
palace, encloses a triangular court, and terminates at the right wing of
the castle, leaving the great central keep outside.

From this keep, the sole relic of the old Gothic fortress of the
burgraves of Lautenburg, flies the standard in black and white, with a
golden leopard and the Lautenburg motto: _Summum decus, flectere_. This
tower has been spoilt, of course, like the rest of the castle, by an
overload of decorative ornament, in the Augsburg style. Thus the keep is
distinguished by battlements with a lining of zinc, while the peristyle,
the steps of which have a balustrade in excellent taste, is surmounted
by a Corinthian pediment.

The side overlooking the Melna is less debased. The uninviting ravine
has been responsible for this, I expect, as the plaster artists no doubt
looked twice before embarking upon their course of "improvement."
Decorative detail has been replaced by ivy, and exceptionally huge
beeches, which overhang the river and sway their dark heads under the
high lancet windows.

I need not describe the palace. It is a diminutive Versailles, with
twenty-five windows in the faade instead of eighty-nine, but none the
less an imitation good enough to make a majestic copy of majesty.

The French park, albeit under a Hanoverian sky, made a direct appeal to
one's heart. Obviously the owners had lavished every care upon it.
German orderliness had done wonders. Everything was straight and smooth.
A faultless green lawn led to the Persephone fountain, a good example of
Ernout, himself a good pupil of Coysevox. You have only to know that
this garden was planned by La Quintinie, who sent his best workmen to
carry it out, to understand the secret of its spacious nobility.

If the Grand Duke George William, a pensioner of the King of France, was
a great admirer of Louis XIV., his grandson Frederick was one of the
finest products of the age of enlightened despotism. He entertained
Voltaire on a visit, and met Rousseau at Grimm's house. He was
responsible for the English garden, surrounding the French park laid out
by his grandfather, which slopes in picturesque disorder down to the
Melna. The clear, rapid torrent is crossed by a wooden bridge, which
still keeps its name of "Pond de la Meilleraie," and is wide enough to
admit the passage of the cavalcades which start from the castle to hunt
in the Herrenwald, that magnificent forest whose leafy roof, as seen
from the terraces, stretches away to the horizon.




2. MY QUARTERS


Two large panelled chambers on the first floor, in the northern wing of
the castle, opposite the great court. The room in which I usually worked
looked out on the terrace. Through the open window I could see the dark
sea of foliage in a tawny sunlight. An overwhelming silence reigned.

The other, less melancholy, had two windows looking out on the ravine
where the Melna plunged and roared, and beyond that the Knigsplatz,
the barracks of the 182nd Regiment and the Cathedral, a garish eyesore.
A white trail of smoke floated on two shining bars--the Hanover express
which had brought me.

I blessed the decision which had deposited me in this part of the
building. It possessed an enormous open grate, with curious ironwork,
and everything dated from the time when German taste was not yet
hopelessly debased.

I was at the extreme end of the castle, immediately above the room known
as the "Armoury." This was a very curious place, though it had been
almost entirely stripped of its contents. The splendid suits of armour
of the great burgraves had been removed, notably that of Goetz von
Vertheidigen-Lautenburg, who was the right arm of Albert the Bear, that
of Miltiades Bussmann, who wounded Henry the Lion, and that of Cadwalla,
mentioned by Hugo, whose helm still bears the mark of the fearful blow
dealt him at Bouvines by the mighty Guillaume des Barres.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is descriptive and somewhat formal. The narrator is describing the setting in detail, and the tone is somewhat objective. The point of view is third person limited.