Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
But, Horace, there is much fraud and trickery connected with it. Think
of that expos last winter of that Mrs. Brunner.

O, that is liable to happen in any creed or theology. There are always
some who make pretensions from merely selfish motives.

But, Horace, this is no theology. That is what I think so dreadful
about it. If people would only not make a religion of it and accept the
utterance of the so-called spirits for their guide in spiritual maters.

It seems to me spirits should be good guides in spiritual matters,
said Mr. Wylie, smiling.

Horace, Mr. Smalley said that, as a rule, false religions always led to
sexual immorality; that we would find the history of spiritism
associated with divorces and worse. Husbands separating from their
wives, wives from their husbands, minds becoming unbalanced, business
neglected, and a general lowering of the whole social fabric, mentally
and morally. You know, Horace, many spiritists are free-lovers.

I am surprised that my wife has permitted herself to listen to such
utterances. Hereafter, I prefer you do not go to hear Rev. Mr. Smalley.
I will take you with me.

And I will _not_ go with you to any more of those horrid seances! said
Mrs. Wylie.

Very well. I shall not compel you to do so. But this childish anger and
lack of self-control is very distasteful to me. I hope I may not have a
repetition of it. Mr. Wylie arose and left the room, while his wife
threw herself upon a sofa and shed tears of anger and grief over this
experience of marital infelicity.

A small wedge may divide in halves a tree, but when divided no power on
earth can unite them as closely as before; and little cracks in the soil
of home life may form a place for germ deposits in which dissensions,
strife, and all manner of unpleasantness are bred.

Mrs. Wylie would not have confessed to her dearest friends that her life
the succeeding winter was less happy than before, but it was true she
felt a growing estrangement between herself and husband.

He was, possibly, as kind and indulgent as ever, treating her as a fond
parent might treat a wayward child, but she missed the old-time
confidences and evening talks.

Probably there had never been that true unity of soul with soul that
should constitute the real marriage, but Elinor Wylies husband had
always seemed so proud of her, and fond, that until this winter she had
felt no lack in his affection. But, alas, so small a thing will turn and
divide a shallow stream, and when turned, how far apart the separate
branches may run. And the ideal marriage of true unity of thought and
purpose is so rarely consummated. Hence the world of divided lives.

Mrs. Wylie felt that they were drifting away from each other, and every
wife knows what that may be. To feel the division growing wider and
wider, deeper and more impassable, and be impotent to stop it.

The little coolnesses and differences which are at first made up with
kisses of cementing power grow more frequent and bitter. The endearing
word is less frequently given. By and by the good-by kiss is forgotten
when he leaves her, the salute of greeting omitted when he returns, and
each heart grows harder and harder, bitterer and bitterer, until at last
he thinks of her but to censure and condemn, she of him but to dislike
and fear. And finally, as Byron writes, Hating one another, wishing one
another dead, they live respectably as man and wife.

Only the first act of this drama of life had as yet come to Mrs. Wylie,
but the little imp of unrest had crept into her breast, and the quiet
happiness of other days was no more. Horace Wylie spent less time at
home than formerly, and when there buried himself in books and papers,
and thus the little woman was left much to herself to seek pleasure and
excitement where she could.

The one thing which caused Mrs. Wylie more heart-ache than any other was
her husbands growing interest and adherence to the creed of Dr. Lyman.
Although that subject was tabooed between them, she knew he regularly
attended seances during the winter and no longer even asked her to
accompany him.

Mrs. Wylie was grievously disappointed in Mrs. Lucien and went less
frequently to see her, for she knew her friend had been led into giving
public seances, and as a writing medium and psychometrist was being much
talked of in the city and sought after by a certain set, many of whom
Mrs. Wylie felt she would not care to acknowledge as acquaintances,
although they belonged to a psychical society or club of which Mr. Wylie
was a member. This club had made much of Mrs. Lucien and brought her
before the public.

Hence, Mrs. Wylie, being left to her own resources, went more in
society, was gayer, more extravagant and fashionable than ever, and
little Robert was left more and more to the care of the remarkable
Tibby.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is formal and objective. The narrator is third-person omniscient, and the tone is dispassionate.