What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Don't expect me to give you even the most summary description of the
riches amassed here since the time of Gutenberg.

I don't believe it possible to write any kind of book on Germany without
having recourse to the library of Lautenburg. The visitors' book
contains the most famous signatures. Amongst others I noticed those of
Leibnitz, Humboldt, Otfried Mller, Curtius, Schleiermacher and Renan.
Even more precious are the treasures contained in the sacristy. There,
in old wooden chests, formerly reserved for vestments and chalices, are
housed the priceless manuscripts which comprise the public and private
archives of the Dukes of Lautenburg, or purchases made by several of
those dukes who were interested in such matters. They have to thank the
Grand Duke Rudolf, brother of the present Grand Duke, for several of the
most important items of the collection. The librarian, Herr Cyrus Beck,
who is engaged in classifying them, kept them jealously under lock and
key.

This Professor Cyrus Beck, of Kiel University, was lent to the Grand
Duke Rudolf ten years ago by the Rector Etlicher, for the special
purpose of cataloguing his manuscripts.

The present Grand Duke retained him in the same post in exchange for an
undertaking to give four hours a week to teach Duke Joachim the exact
sciences.

The old man spent half his remaining time among the manuscripts in the
sacristy, the rest in his laboratory, surrounded by furnaces and
retorts. This laboratory is situated in the triangle formed by the
armoury, the chapel and the walls of the castle. Like my room, it looks
out on the ravine of the Melna, or rather on the trees which almost
entirely shut out the view. The first time I ever entered the
laboratory, accompanied by Kessel, who was to introduce me to our
colleague, I was received much as Gulliver was among the spiders' webs
of the magician of Laputa. A harsh voice screamed out an order to shut
the door, declaring that the draught was putting out the burners. Then
a furious little fellow emerged from amid pungent fumes. Dr. Cyrus Beck
had a bald pate, as polished as if it had been subjected to the most
powerful acids. A long yellowish overall, covered with chemical stains,
enveloped him from head to foot. Among all his paraphernalia he looked
exactly as if he had stepped out of Hoffmann's tales.

He calmed down at the sight of Kessel, proffered his apologies, and told
us that he had just reached the psychological moment in his experiments
on the insulation of ... (something the name of which I have forgotten).
He had almost become pleasant when my companion told him that I myself
intended to do some research work in the manuscript section. He bowed as
Kessel told him that the Grand Duke hoped he would give me every
facility for this purpose, but I could see that he would not do more
than he could help.

"We'll see," I reflected philosophically. "This old chap is full of
fads. Sooner or later I'll find out the one to play up to."

I was in no hurry, having given myself a fortnight before starting on
what was then Professor Thierry's work, but eventually to be my own.




6. THE STATE OF LAUTENBUBG-DETMOLD


The Grand Duchy of Lautenburg-Detmold, one of the twenty-seven States of
the German Confederation, is about sixty miles long from north to south.
Its breadth varies between twelve and twenty-five miles. It has a
population of two hundred and eighty thousand. The Schwarzhugel, a last
buttress of the Harz, is the only orographical system which breaks the
monotony of the Hanoverian plain.

As regards its river system, the Grand Duchy is bounded by the Weser,
and crossed by the Aller. The Melna is the most important river, judging
by the length of its course in Lautenburg territory.

The Herrenwald, a forest of beech and fir, which starts to the north of
Lautenburg, covers a good third of its area. The rest consists of a
sandy tract, very difficult for agriculture, but particularly suited to
brick-making, the principal resource of the State.

There are two towns: Sandau, exclusively industrial, in the northern
plain, with twenty thousand inhabitants; Lautenburg, the capital, forty
thousand inhabitants, seat of a bishopric and the central assizes. A
cavalry brigade formed of the 11th Dragoons and the 7th Hussars, a
regiment of infantry, the 182nd, a half-regiment of artillery, and a
detachment of the 3rd Engineers are stationed there.

The constitution is monarchical, the Grand Dukes succeeding each other
in order of primogeniture, and women are not excluded. The Grand Duchess
Charlotte-Augusta reigned alone at the end of the eighteenth century,
and today the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus owes his title to his
marriage with the Grand Duchess Aurora.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The author is giving the reader a brief overview of the setting of the story. We learn about the location, the size and population of the Grand Duchy of Lautenburg-Detmold, as well as some basic information about its history and government.