What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
V.

_BOB'S STORY: WILD LIFE AT THE DIGGINGS._

"Well, it all came about like this, Archie: 'England,' I said to
myself, says I, 'ain't no place for a poor man.'  Your gentry people,
most o' them anyhow, are just like dogs in the manger.  The dog
couldn't eat the straw, but he wouldn't let the poor hungry cow have
a bite.  Your landed proprietors are just the same; they got their
land as the dog got his manger.  They took it, and though they can't
live on it all, they won't let anybody else do it."

"You're rather hard on the gentry, Bob."

"Well, maybe, Archie; but they ain't many o' them like Squire
Broadbent.  Never mind, there didn't seem to be room for me in
England, and I couldn't help noticing that all the best people, and
the freest, and kindest, were men like your Uncle Ramsay, who had
been away abroad, and had gotten all their dirty little meannesses
squeezed out of them.  So when I left you, after cutting that bit o'
stick, I made tracks for London.  I hadn't much money, so I tramped
all the way to York, and then took train.  When I got to London, why
I felt worse off than ever.  Not a soul to speak to; not a face I
knew; even the bobbies looking sour when I asked them a civil
question; and starvation staring me in the face."

"Starvation, Bob?"

"Ay, Archie, and money in my pocket.  Plenty o' shilling dinners;
but, lo! what was one, London shilling dinner to the like o' me?
Why, I could have bolted three!  Then I thought of Harry here, and
made tracks for Whitechapel.  I found the youngster--I'd known him at
Burley--and he was glad to see me again.  His granny was dead, or
somebody; anyhow, he was all alone in the world.  But he made me
welcome--downright happy and welcome.  I'll tell you what it is,
Archie lad, Harry is a little gentleman, Cockney here or Cockney
there; and deep down below that white, thin face o' his, which three
years and over of Australian sunshine hasn't made much browner, Harry
carries a heart, look, see! that wouldn't disgrace an English Squire."

"Bravo, Bob!  I like to hear you speak in that way about our friend."

"Well, that night I said to Harry, 'Isn't it hard, Harry,' I says,
'that in this free and enlightened land a man is put into gaol if he
snares a rabbit?'

"'Free and enlightened fiddlestick!' that was Harry's words.  'I tell
ye what it is, Bob,' says he, 'this country is played out.  But I
knows where there are lots o' rabbits for the catching.'

"'Where's that?' I says.

"'Australia O!' says Harry.

"'Harry,' says I, 'let us pool up, and set sail for the land of
rabbits--for Australia O!'

"'Right you are,' says Harry; and we pooled up on the spot; and from
that day we haven't had more'n one purse between the two of us, have
we, Harry?"

"Only one," said Harry; "and one's enough between such old, old
chums."

"He may well say old, old chums, Archie; he may well put the two olds
to it; for it isn't so much the time we've been together, it's what
we've come through together; and shoulder to shoulder has always been
our motto.  We've shared our bed, we've shared our blanket, our
damper and our water also, when there wasn't much between the two of
us.

"We got helped out by the emigration folks, and we've paid them
since, and a bit of interest thrown in for luck like; but when we
stood together in Port Jackson for the first time, the contents of
our purse wouldn't have kept us living long, I can assure you."

"'Cities aren't for the like of us, Harry,'" says I.

"'Not now,'" says Harry.

"So we joined a gang going west.  There was a rush away to some place
where somebody had found gold, and Harry and I thought we might do as
well as any o' them.

"Ay, Archie, that was a rush.  'Tinklers, tailors, sodjers, sailors.'
I declare we thought ourselves the best o' the whole gang, and I
think so still.

"We were lucky enough to meet an old digger, and he told us just
exactly what to take and what to leave.  One thing we _did_ take was
steamboat and train, as far as they would go, and this helped us to
leave the mob a bit in the rear.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Bob and Harry, and to set up the conflict between them and the "gentry" of England. The author achieves this by having Bob and Harry discuss their reasons for leaving England, and their experiences since arriving in Australia.