Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
Do not embroil me in the political intrigues of Laythe, I replied. I
am a stranger, with no interest in the internal affairs of your country,
for the reason that I have no knowledge of them.

One is either a friend or an enemy, replied Ko-tah.

I am not sufficiently well acquainted to be accounted either, I told
him; nor shall I choose my friends in Laythe until I am better
acquainted, nor shall another choose them for me.

You are a stranger here, said Ko-tah. I speak in your best interests,
only. If you would succeed here; aye, if you would live, even, you must
choose quickly and you must choose correctly. I, Ko-tah the Javadar,
have spoken.

I choose my own friends, I replied, according to the dictates of my
honor and my heart. I, Ju-lan the Javadar, have spoken.

He bowed low in acquiescence, and when he again raised his eyes to mine
I was almost positive from the expression in them that his consideration
of me was marked more by respect than resentment.

We shall see, was all that he said, and withdrew, leaving me to the
kindly attention of some of the gentlemen of Sagroths court who had
been standing at a respectful distance out of earshot of Ko-tah and
myself. These men chatted pleasantly with me for some time until I was
bidden to join Sagroth in another part of the palace.

I found myself now with a man who had evidently thrown off the restraint
of a formal audience, though without in the slightest degree
relinquishing either his dignity or his majesty. He spoke more freely
and his manner was more democratic. He asked me to be seated, nor would
he himself sit until I had, a point of Laythean court etiquette which
made a vast impression on me, since it indicated that the first
gentleman of the city must also be the first in courtesy. He put
question after question to me concerning my own world and the means by
which I had been transported to Va-nah.

There are fragmentary, extremely fragmentary, legends handed down from
extreme antiquity which suggest that our remote ancestors had some
knowledge concerning the other worlds of which you speak, he said, but
these have been considered always the veriest of myths. Can it be
possible that, after all, they are based upon truth?

The remarkable part of them, I suggested, is that they exist at all,
since it is difficult to understand how any knowledge of the outer
Universe could ever reach to the buried depths of Va-nah.

No, not by any means, he said, if what you tell me is the truth, for
our legends bear out the theory that Va-nah is located in the center of
an enormous globe and that our earliest progenitors lived upon the outer
surface of this globe, being forced at last by some condition which the
legends do not even suggest, to find their way into this inner world.

I shook my head. It did not seem possible.

And, yet, he said, noting the doubt that my expression evidently
betrayed, you yourself claim to have reached Va-nah from a great world
far removed from our globe which you call the Moon. If you reached us
from another world, is it then so difficult to believe that those who
preceded us reached Va-nah from the outer crust of this Moon? It is
almost an historic certainty, he continued, that our ancestors
possessed great ships which navigated the air. As you entered Va-nah by
means of a similar conveyance, may not they have done likewise?

I had to admit that it was within the range of possibilities, and in so
doing, to avow that the Moon Men of antiquity had been millions of years
in advance of their brethren of the Earth.

But, after all, was it such a difficult conclusion to reach when one
considers the fact that the Moon being smaller, must have cooled more
rapidly than Earth, and therefore, provided that it had an atmosphere,
have been habitable to man ages before man could have lived upon our own
planet?

We talked pleasantly upon many subjects for some time, and then, at
last, Sagroth arose.

We will join the others at the tables now, he said, and as he led the
way from the apartment in which we had been conversing alone, stone
doors opened before us as by magic, indicating that the Jemadar of
Laythe was not only well served, but well protected, or possibly well
spied upon.

After we emerged from the private audience, guards accompanied us, some
preceding the Jemadar and some following, and thus we moved in
semi-state through several corridors and apartments until we came out
upon a balcony upon the second floor of the palace overlooking the
terraces and the crater.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Sagroth, the Jemadar of Laythe, is speaking with Ju-lan, a stranger who has recently arrived in Va-nah. He is asking Ju-lan about his world and how he came to be in Va-nah. Ju-lan tells him that he is from the Moon and that he arrived in Va-nah via a ship.
Sagroth is intrigued by this and asks Ju-lan if he believes that their ancestors may have arrived in Va-nah in a similar way. Ju-lan is hesitant at first, but then admits that it is possible. Sagroth goes on to say that he believes their ancestors were from the outer crust of the Moon and that they arrived in Va-nah millions of years ago.
Ju-lan is amazed by this theory and the two continue to chat pleasantly about it for some time. Eventually, Sagroth says that they should join the others at the tables and leads Ju-lan out onto a balcony overlooking the crater. Guards accompany them as they move through the palace.