Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
The roaring went on and on, and abruptly there were violent coughings
below. Instantly his head tried to split wide open because the
acceleration ceased between two heartbeats, while his heart kept on
trying to pump blood against a static head which was many times normal,
and suddenly there was no static head at all. There was no gravity to
be pumped against. There was no weight to anything. Then his heart
tried to adjust to that, and it skipped beats, and all his insides that
had been dragged downward now rose up and tried to climb out of his
throat.

He gagged and swallowed.

"Okay!" he panted. "In free fall! The light changed to reddish but it's
back to normal. I feel fighting mad. Over."

"_First puzzle_," said a brisk voice in the headphones.

McCauley reached out into the arrangement of objects before him. He
took out a puzzle. It wasn't complicated, but he had to recognize it
and then remember how to do it. He tossed it aside, finished, and his
working time was undoubtedly recorded. The voice said:

"_Name two things in the same class among these: robin, shovel, tree,
ibis, shark._"

McCauley answered. Again the time was noted. This was straight IQ
stuff, to see how soon and how well his brain was functioning after the
beating he'd taken in the booster-stage take-off and the second-stage
acceleration of the rocket itself. He knew what it was all about,
even when they told him to solve puzzle six, and then four, and then
asked more silly questions. He responded as well as he could, with
no idea how good that was. But he felt a great irrational anger and
indignation. When he was asked to recite a paragraph of prose he'd
memorized for the exact purpose of reciting it, on demand, he recited
it. But he was unreasonably angry. It was his body's response to the
suffering just past.

Presently he snapped:

"Doggone it, I want to see something!"

"_Go ahead_," said the voice from the ground. "_But keep on talking. It
doesn't matter what you say. Talk._"

He pressed the button that slid the port shutters aside. The shutters
were necessary. There'd been terrific heat outside when the nose-cone
flung upward through the denser lower atmosphere near ground level. He
looked eagerly out.

For a moment he couldn't speak. He saw the horizon as an almost white
line against a star-specked black sky. It was curved! There were
innumerable flecks of whiteness--they'd be clouds--below him; they grew
thicker farther away. He saw the ocean, which was hundreds of miles
away. The world visibly tilted downwards, downhill away from him. He
looked below and it was paradoxically a bowl. Quite close he saw a
fleeting, rushing, tormented spurt of vapor which vanished instantly.
It was a steam-jet correcting yaw or spin or tumbling, up here where
the air was so thin that the fins themselves could take no grip on it.

Years ago, when a WAC corporal made the first flight up to the then
incredible height of two hundred and fifty miles, the machine turned
end for end five times as it rose, and its tumbling made no difference.
It was practically in a vacuum. McCauley was higher than that, already.
But this Aerobee pointed straight, balanced by little puffings of
steam. It didn't even rotate.

He could see stars all around, and then he turned to the one filtered
port and looked at the sun through it. It was a monstrous brilliance,
with writhing fire-fringes around its edges. He saw Mercury off to
its right. It was the first time in his life that he'd ever seen that
planet, and he'd had to get out of the atmosphere to do it. Not one
person in ten thousand has ever seen the sun's closest satellite, even
as a tiny speck of light in the sky. But McCauley saw it, not hidden by
the daytime sky. There was no air here to speak of. At this height a
man not in a pressure-tight cabin, trying to breathe what few molecules
of air were present, would die in thirteen seconds because of anoxia
and explosive decompression. He'd die no more quickly out between the
galaxies.

"_Keep talking_," said the voice in the headphones. "_Keep talking,
man!_"

McCauley found himself stammering. What he said wasn't particularly
coherent, and he knew his taped speech would be studied to find out
exactly what mental state he was in. The headphones asked questions.
Could he see this? Could he see that? He answered yes and no. The voice
asked him to write something. He did, not looking at it. He stared
out at the monstrousness of the universe, with Earth merely a dimpled
gigantic ball below him.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

- McCauley is in a rocket, just after takeoff
- He is feeling the effects of the acceleration, but is also angry
- He looks out the window and sees the horizon, the clouds, the ocean, and the sun
- The voice from the ground asks him questions and has him perform tasks
- McCauley continues to look out at the view, feeling amazed and overwhelmed