Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Next morning she gave me them back.

"I've read them all," she said, "but your selection was not a bad one. I
see you like poetry."

Several books lay on a sofa. She picked one up and handed it to me.

"It is the _Caucasian Review_, which is published at Tiflis, and there
is more beauty in these rude pages and simple tales of travel in
unforgettable lands than in most of your modern poets. This is the rare
spring to which the poets of tomorrow will come to drink."

She continued:

"Shakespeare has been dead three centuries, and the haunts of Macbeth
are now treeless and a waste of factories. In Spain Don Quixote has been
succeeded by a horde of commercial travellers from here. In Italy
Carducci is a kind of half-witted Hugo. Like Switzerland, your romantic
countries are now the hunting-grounds of tourists. There are turnstiles
at the bottom of all your peaks.

"Suars, whose book you lent me, felt all this, and surpasses himself
when speaking of our Dostoevsky. He ought to come, if only for a short
time, to our gorges of Dariel. I am quite sure he would prefer them to
those of the Ebro and Douro, of which you see pictures in every station.

"There is no doubt that Madame de Noailles is your greatest poet. But
why insist on calling her Greek! She is no more Greek than the Ariadne
of the Indian Dionysus or the Circassian Medea. All that is best in her
she owes to Armenia and Persia, our countries. Greek indeed! How silly
they are! Haven't you ever seen her? I once lunched with her at Evian. I
can tell you I took a great fancy to her. She's lovely and malicious,
but honestly she is not Greek at all. At home we have a species of bird
that you call jackdaw. It is very wild, flies high and has a vicious
peck. Its plumage is blue and black, and it is strong, though slight.
Your Madame de Noailles is a Tartar jackdaw, not a fat, lazy Greek
dove."

"What about this?" I said, holding up Rene Vivian's volume of verse.

She kissed the book. "My words are too clumsy for her," she replied. "I
adore her."

I was almost drank with joy to hear the woman whom I admired to the
point of idolatry speak of things dearest to my heart in a setting which
satisfied my exotic tastes. I told her so in a few simple words--as one
always should.

I think she was touched, for she laid her hand on my shoulder and
murmured, I have forgotten in what language:

"Thou art kind and I love thee well, my comrade."

Turning to Melusine, she repeated the Russian phrase of the previous
evening:

"No, indeed, it's no good my relying on for my admission to the
_Kirchhaus_."

Then, resuming her old sprightly tone:

"I believe I called you 'thou' just now, _ami_. You mustn't mind that. I
mix all my dialects occasionally, and in my country we use 'thou' to
practically every one, from our cattle up to the Czar himself."

A long silence followed, broken only at rhythmic intervals by the weird
strains Melusine drew from her guzla.

Incense was burning in a bowl.

I began to turn over, without reading, the pages of a book which lay
open on a small table beside me.

"Do you like that?" Aurora asked.

"That" was the _Reisebilder_.

I told her I was a great lover of Heine.

"Now what I value most in a poet," she said, "is a certain quality of
soul. That is why I love Shelley and Lamartine, and dislike this Heine.
Oh, I know what you'll say, the Nordsee and the rest. No one knows my
debt to him better than I; but he's like Deutz, who sold your Duchesse
de Berry, and I always feel I want to offer him the tribute of my
admiration with a pair of tongs."

She took the book from me and looked through it.

I had no idea what time it was. Suddenly a whiff of air, with that sharp
nip in it that heralds the dawn, was wafted in through the open window
behind the curtains. The smoke of the incense trembled like a tottering
pillar.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The tone of this scene is one of admiration and joy, mixed with a touch of playfulness. The point of view is first person, from the perspective of the narrator. The style is conversational and intimate, with a focus on the beauty of nature and the bond between the two characters.