Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
XI

TROUBLE


Jessie was beginning to learn that to guard the welfare of a lively
youngster like Henrietta was no small task. The worst of it was, she
was so fond of the little girl that she worried about her much of the
time. And Henrietta seemed to have a penchant for getting into trouble.

Jessie called, and she called again and again, as she ploughed through
the sand, and heard in reply only the shrieks of the gulls and peewees.
Gray clouds had rolled up from the Western horizon and covered
completely the glow of sunset. It was going to be a drab evening, and
all the hollows were already filled with shadow.

Jessie toiled up the slope of one sand-hill after another, calling and
listening, calling and listening, but all to no avail. What _could_
have become of Henrietta Haney?

Suddenly Jessie fairly tumbled into an excavation in the sand. Although
she could not see the place, her hands told her that the hole was deep
and the sand somewhat moist. The hole had been dug recently, for the
surface of the dunes was still warm from the rays of the sun.

She stumbled down the slope of the sand dune and found another hole,
then another. Dark as it was in the hollow, when she kicked something
that rattled, she knew what it was.

"Henrietta's pail and shovel!" Jessie exclaimed aloud. "She has been
here."

She picked up the articles. Before leaving New Melford she had herself
bought the pail and shovel for the freckle-faced little girl.

Where had the child gone from here? Already Jessie was some distance
from the group of bungalows. As Henrietta insisted upon believing that
most of the island belonged to her "by good rights," there was no
telling what part of it she might have aimed for after playing in the
sand.

Jessie shouted again, her voice wailing over the sands almost as
mournfully as the cries of the sea-fowl. Again and again she shouted,
but without hearing a human sound in reply. She labored on, and it grew
so dark that she began to wish one of the others had come with her.
Even Amy's presence would have been a comfort.

She came to the brink of a yawning sand-pit, the bottom of which was so
dark she could not see it. She began skirting this hollow, crying out
as she went, and almost in tears.

Suddenly Darry's voice answered her. She was fond of Darry--thought him
a most wonderful fellow, in fact. But there was just one thing Jessie
wanted of him now.

"Have you seen her?" she cried.

"Not a bit. I have been away down to the lighthouse. Nobody has seen
her there."

"Oh! Who you lookin' for?" suddenly asked a voice out of the darkness.

"Henrietta!" shrieked Jessie, and plunged down into the dark sand-pit.

"Who's lost?" asked the little girl again. "Ow-ow! I--I guess I been
asleep, Miss Jessie."

"Has that kid shown up at last?" grumbled Darry, climbing to the sand
ridge.

"Is it night?" demanded Henrietta, as Jessie clasped her with an energy
that betrayed her relief. "Why, it wasn't dark when I came down here."

"How did you get down there?" demanded Darry from above.

"I rolled down. I guess I was tired. I dug so much sand----"

"Did you dig all those holes I found, Henrietta?" demanded the relieved
Jessie.

"Why, no, Miss Jessie. I didn't dig holes. I dug sand and let the holes
be," declared the freckle-faced little girl scornfully.

Darry sat down and laughed, but while he laughed Jessie toiled up the
yielding sand hill with her hand clasping Henrietta's. "Ow-ow!" yawned
the child again. "When do we eat, Miss Jessie? Or is eating all over?"

"Listen to the kid!" ejaculated Darry. "Here! Give her to me. I'll
carry her. Want to go pickaback, Hen?"


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is light and humorous. The tone is playful and teasing, and the point of view is third person limited.