What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XVI

"RADIO CONTROL"


Jessie Norwood had talked over the matter of the new super-regenerative
circuit with her father and had got him interested in the idea of using
one to improve their own radio receiving. It was not difficult to
interest Mr. Norwood in it, for he had become a radio enthusiast like
his daughter since the Roselawn girls had broken into the wireless game.

With the large party now in the Norwood's bungalow in Station Island,
it was not convenient to use only the head-phones when the radio
concerts were to be received out of the ether. The two-step amplifier
Mr. Norwood had formerly bought did not always work well, especially,
for some unknown reason, since they had come to the seashore.

In addition, the sounds through the horn seemed to be scratchy and
harsh, a good deal like the sounds from a poor talking machine. From
what Jessie had read, she understood that these harsh noises would
be obviated if the super-regenerative circuit was put in. Her father
had telegraphed for the material to build the super-regenerative and
amplifier circuit, and the material came by express the morning after
the picnic on which Henrietta had disgraced herself.

"We will try the thing here on the island," Mr. Norwood said to Jessie.
"If it works here it will surely work back at Roselawn, for the
temperature, or humidity, or something, is different there from what it
is here. At least, so it seems to me, and the state of the air surely
influences radio."

"Static," said Jessie, briefly, reading the instructions in the book.

Amy, of course, was quite as interested in the new invention as her
chum; and Nell, too. But they were not so clear in their minds as was
Jessie about what should be done in building the new set. Jessie was
glad to have her father show so much interest, for he was eminently
practical, and when the girls were uncertain how to proceed it was nice
to have somebody like the lawyer to turn to.

He even let Mr. Drew and the two mothers go on to the golf course that
day without him, while he gave his aid to the girls. The boys were
cleaning up the yacht in preparation for the voyage they expected to
make in a short time.

Nell's Aunt Freda had arrived that morning, so the minister's daughter
did not have to worry at all about Bob and Fred and Sally.

"And to help out," Amy said, with a giggle, "Henrietta is invited over
to the Stanley bungalow to play with little Sally."

"I guess Aunt Freda will get along all right with them," observed Nell,
with some amusement. "But Fred pretty nearly floored her at the start.
She says it takes her several hours to get 'acclimated' when she comes
to our house."

"What did Fred say--or do?" asked Jessie, interested.

"There was something Aunt Freda advised him to do and he said he
would--'to-morrow.'

"'Don't you know,'" she asked him, 'that "to-morrow never comes"?'

"'Gee! and to-morrow's my birthday,' grumbled Fred. 'Now I suppose I
won't have any.'"

"What kids they are!" gasped Amy, when she had recovered from her
laughter. "I don't know whether a younger brother is worse than an
older brother or not. I've had my troubles with Darrington," and she
sighed with mock seriousness.

"Ha!" exclaimed Jessie. "I guess he's had his troubles with you. Do you
remember when you smeared your hands all up with chocolate cake and
tried to wipe them clean on Darry's new trousers?"

Nell shouted with laughter at this revelation, but it did not trouble
Amy Drew in the least.

"Yes," she admitted. "My taste in the art of dressing, you see, was
well developed even at that early age. Those trousers, I remember,
were of an atrocious pattern."

"Nonsense!" cried Jessie. "They were Darry's first long pants, and you
were mad to think he was so much older than you that he could put on
men's clothes."

"Dear me!" sighed Amy. "You make me out an awful creature, Jess
Norwood. But, never mind. Darry has paid me up and to spare for that
unladylike trick. He _has_ been a trial--and is so yet. He doesn't
know how to pick a decent necktie. His shirts--some of them--are so
loud that you can see him coming clear across The Green. Why! they
tell me that his shirts are as well known in New Haven, and almost as
prominently mentioned by the natives, as the Hartley Memorial Hall; and
almost _nobody_ gets away from the City of Elms without being obliged
to see that."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the characters of Jessie, Amy, and Nell as practical, level-headed girls, and to contrast them with Henrietta, who is impulsive and flighty. The scene also sets up the conflict between Jessie's desire to build the new radio set and Amy's and Nell's desire to play golf with the boys.