Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
This document contained the confession of a certain Bauer, who had died
a game-keeper in the service of the Grand Duke of Rudolstadt, and who,
twenty years earlier, had been employed at the _Herrenhausen_. In his
last moments this man, a Catholic, had asked a priest to confess him.
The latter, who had heard of the Queen of Prussia's investigation, made
his absolution subject to a formal statement of the events in which
Bauer had taken part. It was that very confession, bearing the
signatures of the dying man, the confessor and two witnesses, that I was
engaged in examining.

You will understand that, with that proof of authenticity before me, it
chained my attention.

Bauer had been one of the ten men who assisted Countess von Platen to
assassinate Count Knigsmark on the tragic night of July 1st, 1694.

His confession related how Countess von Platen prepared punch for her
men while they were waiting for the Count to come out of the Princess's
apartments.

He denies being among those who actually attacked him with their swords
and daggers, but admits that he held him down while Countess von Platen,
with her foot on his head, tried to extort a confession from him that he
had been Sophie-Dorothea's lover.

I was familiar with most of these details. They can also be found in
Blaze de Bury's book. But the statements following definitely settled
the famous controversy as to what happened to the Count's corpse.


When Count Knigsmark was quite dead, said Bauer, Countess von Platen
ordered us to carry him to the great fireplace at the back of which is a
bronze plaque six feet wide. Countess von Platen touched a spring. The
plaque divided in two, revealing a little chamber. I just caught a
glimpse, for I was very much perturbed in mind, of a whitish heap which
looked like lime. We laid the corpse down there. Countess von Platen
then sent us away, after telling us to wash off the blood which had
stained the clothes of some of the men. She remained in the Baron's Hall
with her attendant, a certain Festmann....


You see now that I had my reasons when I told you, casually, that
Knigsmark's corpse is concealed behind the fire-back in the Knight's
Hall of the _Herrenhausen_. Moreover, Bauer's document had, in my eyes,
a further importance beyond settling the spot once and for all. To me it
was also a proof of the complicity either of Ernest-Augustus or his son.
Remember that Countess von Platen had worked a secret spring, and also
bear in mind that German princes in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries were exceedingly jealous of their secret lock-systems. If that
secret was communicated to Madame von Platen it was only for some vital
purpose.

Before starting work I had made some coffee and had three cups, one
after the other. This coffee began to have its effect, by which I mean
that, excited by my first discovery, my mind was absolutely clear at
that moment. Please note this detail as it has its importance.

To discover something is nothing. To establish the truth of your
discovery is everything. Now how was I to go to Hanover, obtain
permission to visit the _Herrenhausen_ and be alone in the Knight's Hall
for the necessary time. You can imagine I had no intention of putting
some palace curator on the track I had just found.

It was then that an idea occurred to me which I will disclose to you as
a proof of the value of coffee in deductive reasoning. You will remember
that when I was studying the question of the employment of French
artists by German princes in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries I
discovered that the locksmith's work had been given by the Elector
Ernest-Augustus of Hanover to a Catalan named Giroud who had also worked
for the Grand Duke of Lautenburg. This Giroud had even had difficulties
with Ernest-Augustus over his accounts. At that time I had only cast a
cursory glance at the file dealing with the case. It was necessary for
me to examine it more carefully. Perhaps I should be able to find
something about the system of secret springs installed by Giroud at the
_Herrenhausen_. I decided to clear the matter up then and there.

It was just after midnight I put an electric torch in my pocket and
quietly left my room. At that moment I thought I heard a faint noise in
the deserted corridor.

"Come," I thought, "I can't let myself be scared like this by old
papers!"

When I got to the library I was disagreeably surprised to find the
lights on. Professor Cyrus Beck was hard at work covering a black board
with his formul and only stopping to consult five or six treatises
open in front of him.

There was, of course, nothing unusual about my appearance there. I had
often gone down late at night to the library to clear up some point in
my next day's lesson. All the same he looked at me with that suspicious
air of the savant who always thinks you're going to rob him of
something.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is formal and objective. The narrator is third-person omniscient, and the tone is neutral.