What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Carlin made no further comment. He was not much interested. He was
only wondering sickly how long he would have to stay on this unkempt,
stagnant planet.

The sun was burning his neck, for the old truck was topless. He was
jolted by holes in the ancient road. The sweetness of the air had lost
its magic for him, for now with the twilight had appeared swarms of
evil little gnats and midges.

"This is the house," said Jonny Land, pulling up the truck in front of
a square dwelling.

Laird Carlin's heart sank. It was like the other houses he had seen,
a ferroconcrete structure festooned with climbing flower-vines,
surrounded by tall, untrimmed trees except on the side that looked down
into the twilit valley. Primitive hydroponic tanks gleamed dully beyond
the trees.

He followed the lame youngster into a dim, cool living room. It looked
like an antique stage set to Carlin, with its ridiculous cloth curtains
at the windows, its obsolete krypton light bulbs in the ceiling, its
massive furniture that was actually made of wood.

Jonny Land had been making explanations in lowered tones to the two
people at the other end of the room. They came forward, a spry old man
and a girl.

"This is Gramp Land, my grandfather," Jonny introduced. "And my sister
Marn."

The old man looked at Laird Carlin with inquisitive, bright eyes, and
his gnarled hand reached for an old-fashioned handshake.

"Come from Canopus, do you?" he chirped. "Well, that's a long way off.
I was there once years ago when I followed space. And my grandson Harb
has been there lots of times when he was a star-ship man."

The girl, Marn, looked doubtful and troubled as she murmured a word of
greeting to Carlin. He sensed that his coming had disturbed her.

She was a rather small girl, with a thick mop of ash-colored hair
carelessly combed back. Her eyes were grave blue. She wore a faded old
slack-suit that he thought the most barbaric feminine garment he had
seen.

"I hope we can make you comfortable here, Mr. Carlin," she said,
troubled. "We've never had any lodger before. I can't understand why
Jonny made the suggestion."

A heavy step at the door cut her short. Her look of distress and worry
deepened.

"There's my brother Harb, now."

Harb Land was a gangling young giant with a craggy face and
slate-colored eyes that looked at Carlin with instant hostility. Jonny
had limped forward and was quickly explaining Carlin's presence.

"He's going to live here with us for a while, Harb."

Harb Land's reaction was violent. "Have you gone out of your mind,
Jonny?" he flared. "We can't have him here."

Disgusted, Carlin started to turn away. But Jonny Land stopped him with
a gesture. There was a quiet, unsuspected strength in his thin brown
face as he spoke to his lowering brother.

"He's going to stay, Harb. We'll talk about it later."

Harb Land made no reply, but glared at Carlin. And Carlin felt an
unutterable weariness and dislike.

These primitive, backward, suspicious Earth yokels, quarreling over the
privilege of staying in their grotesque old house. As though he would
stay on their cursed planet one minute if he didn't have to!

"I'm very tired," he said heavily. "If you could show me where the room
is, I should like to rest."

Marn uttered an apologetic exclamation. "Oh, I'm sorry! Of course
you're tired. Come with me, Mr. Carlin."

She led upstairs. There was no grav-lift, just old-fashioned steps
going up a dark hall. And the bedroom on the upper floor to which she
took him was as bad as he had expected.

It was clean, of course, spotlessly so. But it was more like a museum
exhibit than a sleeping chamber, to Carlin. There were no aerators,
just open windows with crude screens across them. No somnigrav pad,
just a high, old-style bed. There wasn't even a video.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the main characters. The author achieves this by describing the scene in detail and by having the characters interact with each other.