Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The feeling of depression in which this visit left me quickly vanished
when I got to the money-changers, where I converted half my German notes
into French money. I spent the rest of the afternoon in visits to
tailors, boot makers and hosiers. For the first time in my life I knew
the exquisite, almost painful joy of spending money without reckoning.
As I was stock size I had no difficulty at "Old England" in finding a
suit, overcoat, and boots to fit. My shabby clothes were wrapped up and
sent to my lodgings. Then, as my confidence rose, I tried my luck at a
fashionable tailor's. On the strength of my new appointment, I ordered
dress clothes, a frock coat and another lounge suit I paid the eight
hundred francs required in advance in return for the promise that they
would be delivered during the evening of the next day.

Seven o'clock.

Oh! the wondrous beauty of the Boulevard des Capucines in October! Oh,
the joy of finding oneself well dressed and with money--lord of all,
absolutely lord of all!

The pale blue lamps of the Olympia presented their barbaric curtain of
light. Cabs rolled by. Taxis tooted. The Madeleine, peering through the
evening mist, raised on high its huge, shadowy entablature. On, on. All
this would be behind me the day after tomorrow. I meant to enjoy my
ephemeral royalty.

I experienced a curious sensation. I had money, but I could not make it
give me acquaintances on the spot I had money, but without a friend to
prove it, I might just as well have been without it.

A sudden recollection brought a bright idea to my mind. I went into
Weber's. Ribeyre and his friends of the previous evening would be just
on the point of meeting. The thought of Clotilde possessed my mind. She
had been wearing a long black velvet cloak above which peeped her small
head with its coils of glossy fair hair.

What a treat to appear before her in my new glory!

Ribeyre had already arrived.

"Hullo, old boy! All's well. I've just seen Marais. He's delighted.
You seem to have the voice of the charmer all right. Good Lord, you
haven't wasted much time," he said, noticing my transformation.

I thought I detected a touch of sarcasm in his tone. I thought of
Gautier's story of Baudelaire rubbing his new suit with sandpaper to
take off that offensive nap so dear to philistines and bourgeois. My
confidence was a little shaken. I almost expected to see my newly-won
joys dissolve on the spot. Then I thought, "What does it matter? I know
it's only ready-made, but I couldn't come here in my shabby boots and a
suit two years old. Just let them wait a day or two!"

And the knowledge that I had been fitted out at one of the most
expensive tailor's restored my spirits entirely.

Clotilde arrived. She had on white fox furs which seemed to me the last
word in luxury and good taste. When I had bought a poor flower-seller's
entire stock of violets for her, she condescended to notice my existence
and soon made me feel I was much more to her liking.

"Clotilde," said Ribeyre, "if you love me you will exchange Surville for
my friend Vignerte this evening. He is in funds and he's leaving the day
after tomorrow, two things which women seldom fail to appreciate."

A quarter of an hour earlier this extremely masculine joke would have
jarred on me very greatly, but the terrible white port was already at
work, and besides Clotilde wore an amused smile and did not say no.

Surville arrived with the other man, one Mouton-Mass. They were both
in the Ministry of the Interior.

"We can't stick in this hole," said lanky Surville. "Twice running is
too much. Charmed to see you, sir. You dine with us, of course?"

"My friend Vignerte wants you to give him the pleasure of being your
host," said Ribeyre. "He is leaving the day after tomorrow for the Court
of Lautenburg and wants us to share his travelling expenses."

Little Mouton-Mass indicated that my desire met with his approval.

"Where shall we go?"

For a good ten minutes these gentlemen discussed the point, tossing from
mouth to mouth names utterly unknown to me: "Viel," "Les Sergents," "La
Tour," and even stranger animal names, "Le Coucou," "L'Escargot," "L'Ane
Rouge."

I was not listening. A third glass of port had wafted me to Paradise
itself. The warm restaurant atmosphere went to my head. I thought with
some disdain of my prospects of yesterday, with its poor man's
education, its fellowships, the Heads of the four Faculties and the
Vice-Rector in his room in the Rue des coles. These fashionable women
and young men of the world who flittered round me under the lights
reminded me of the cold passages of the Sorbonne and Henri Martin's
fresco of Anatole France, dressed as an explorer in a landscape dotted
with flowers, explaining to a dozen ill-dressed young graduates his
personal conception of human destiny.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is light and humorous. The narrator is in a good mood and is enjoying himself. There is a touch of sarcasm in the dialogue, but overall the tone is positive. The point of view is first person.