Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Now if I were writing all this tale from imagination, instead of
sketching the life and struggles of a real live laddie, I should have
ascended into the realms of romance, and made a kind of hero of him
thus: he should have gone straight away to the bank when he received
that 50 from his uncle, and sent it back, and then gone off to the
bush with twopence halfpenny in his pocket, engaged himself to a
squatter as under-man, and worked his way right up to the pinnacle of
fortune.

But Archie had not done that; and between you and me and the
binnacle, not to let it go any further, I think he did an extremely
sensible thing in sticking to the money.

Oh, but plenty of young men who do not have uncles to send them
fifty-pound notes to help them over their first failures, do very
well without such assistance!  So let no intending emigrant be
disheartened.

Again, as to Winslow's wild way of borrowing said 50, and changing
it into 300, that was another "fluke," and a sort of thing that
might never happen again in a hundred years.

Pride did come in again, however, with a jump--with a gay
Northumbrian bound--when Bob and Harry seriously proposed that
Johnnie, as the latter still called him, should put his money in the
pool, and share and share alike with them.

"No, no, no," said the young Squire, "don't rile me; that would be so
obviously unfair to you, that it would be unfair to myself."

When asked to explain this seeming paradox, he added:

"Because it would rob me of my feeling of independence."

So the matter ended.

But through the long-headed kindness and business tact of Winslow,
all three succeeded in getting farms that adjoined, though Archie's
was but a patch compared to the united great farms of his chums, that
stretched to a goodly two thousand acres and more, with land beyond
to take up as pasture.

But then there was stock to buy, and tools, and all kinds of things,
to say nothing of men's and boys' wages to be paid, and arms and
ammunition to help to fill the larder.

At this time the railway did not go sweeping away so far west as it
does now, the colony being very much younger, and considerably
rougher; and the farms lay on the edge of the Darling Downs.

This was a great advantage, as it gave them the run of the markets
without having to pay nearly as much in transit and freight as the
stock was worth.

They had another advantage in their selection--thanks once more to
Winslow--they had Bush still farther to the west of them.  Not
adjacent, to be sure, but near enough to make a shift of stock to
grass lands, that could be had for an old song, as the saying is.

The selection was procured under better conditions than I believe it
is to be had to-day; for the rent was only about ninepence an acre,
and that for twenty years, the whole payable at any time in order to
obtain complete possession.*


* At present agricultural farms may be selected of not more than 1280
acres, and the rent is fixed by the Land Board, not being less than
threepence per acre per annum.  A license is issued to the selector,
who must, within five years, fence in the land or make permanent
improvements of a value equal to the cost of the fence, and must also
live on the selection.  If at the end of that time he can prove that
he has performed the above conditions, he will be entitled to a
transferable lease for fifty years.  The rent for the first ten years
will be the amount as at first fixed, and the rent for every
subsequent period of five years will be determined by the Land Board,
but the greatest increase that can be made at any re-assessment is
fifty per cent.


It must not be imagined that this new home of theirs was a land
flowing with milk and honey, or that they had nothing earthly to do
but till the ground, sow seed, and live happy ever after.  Indeed the
work to be performed was all earthly, and the milk and honey had all
to come.

A deal of the very best land in Australia is covered with woods and
forests, and clearing has to be done.

Bob wished his busy little body of a wife to stay behind in Brisbane
till he had some kind of a decent crib, as he called it, ready to
invite her to.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is fairly straightforward and matter-of-fact. There is no real attempt at literary flourishes or poetic language. Instead, the focus is on clear, concise description of the events and setting. This makes the scene feel realistic and down-to-earth, rather than fanciful or romanticized.