Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
In this field always dwelt one particular sheep.  It had, like the
pony, been a birthday present, and, like the pony, it hailed from the
_Ultima Thule_ of the British North.  If ever there was a demon sheep
in existence, surely this was the identical quadruped.  Tall and
lank, and daft-looking, it possessed almost the speed of a red deer,
and was as full of mischief as ever sheep could be.  The worst of the
beast was, that he led all the other woolly-backs into mischief; and
whether it proposed a stampede round the park, ending with a charge
through the ranks of the deer, or a well-planned attempt at escape
from the field altogether, the other sheep were always willing to
join, and sometimes the deer themselves.

Archie loved that sheep next to the pony, and there were times when
he held a meet of his own.  Mousa, as he called him, would be carted,
after the fashion of the Queen's deer, to a part of the estate, miles
from home; but it was always for home that Mousa headed, though not
in a true line.  No, this wonderful sheep would take to the woods as
often as not, and scamper over the hills and far away, so that Archie
had many a fine run; and the only wonder is that Scallowa and he did
not break their necks.

The young Chillingham bull was as beautiful as a dream--a nightmare
for instance.  He was not very large, but sturdy, active, and strong.
Milk-white, or nearly so, with black muzzle and crimson ears inside,
and, you might say, eyes as well.  Pure white black-tipped horns,
erect almost, and a bit of a mane which added to his picturesqueness
and wild beauty.  His name was Lord Glendale, and his pedigree longer
than the Laird o' Cockpen's.

Now, had his lordship behaved himself, he certainly would have been
an ornament to the society of Westfield.  But he wouldn't or
couldn't.  Baby though he was, he attempted several times to vivisect
his companions; and one day, thinking perhaps that Mousa did not pay
him sufficient respect, his lordship made a bold attempt to throw him
over the moon.  So it was determined that Lord Glendale should be
removed from Westfield.  At one end of the park was a large, strong
fence, and Branson and others came to the conclusion that Glendale
would be best penned, and have a ring put in his nose.

Yes, true; but penning a Chillingham wild baby-bull is not so simple
as penning a letter.  There is more _present_ risk about the former
operation, if not _future_.

"Well, it's got to be done," said Branson.

"Yes," said Archie, who was not far off, "it's got to be done."

"Oh, Master Archie, you can't be in this business!"

"Can't I, Branson?  You'll see."

And Branson did see.  He saw Archie ride into the west field on
Scallowa, both of them looking in splendid form.  Men with poles and
ropes and dogs followed, some of the former appearing not to relish
the business by any means.

However, it would probably be an easier job than they thought.  The
plan would be to get the baby-bull in the centre of the other cattle,
manoeuvre so as to keep him there, and so pen all together.

This might have been done had Archie kept away, but it so happened
that his lordship was on particularly good terms with himself this
morning.  Moreover, he had never seen a Shetland pony before.  What
more natural, therefore, than a longing on the part of Lord Glendale
to examine the little horse _inside_ as well as out?

"Go gently now, lads," cried Branson.  "Keep the dogs back, Peter, we
must na' alarm them."

Lord Glendale did not condescend to look at Branson.  He detached
himself quietly from the herd, and began to eat up towards the spot
where Archie and his "Duck" were standing like some pretty statue.
Eating up towards him is the correct expression, as everyone who
knows bulls will admit; for his lordship did not want to alarm Archie
till he was near enough for the grand rush.  Then the fun would
commence, and Lord Glendale would see what the pony was made of.
While he kept eating, or rather pretending to eat, his sly red eyes
were fastened on Archie.

Now, had it been Harry Brown, the Whitechapel boy, this ruse on the
part of the baby-bull might have been successful.  But Archie
Broadbent was too old for his lordship.  He pretended, however, to
take no notice; but just as the bull was preparing for the rush he
laughed derisively, flicked Lord Glendale with the whip, and started.

Lord Glendale roared with anger and disappointment.

"Oh, Master Archie," cried Branson, "you shouldn't have done that!"

Now the play began in earnest.  Away went Archie on Scallowa, and
after him tore the bull.  Archie's notion was to tire the brute out,
and there was some very pretty riding and manoeuvring between the two
belligerents.  Perhaps the bull was all too young to be easily tired,
for the charges he made seemed to increase in fierceness each time,
but Archie easily eluded him.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Archie: young boy, rider of Scallowa the Shetland pony
-Mousa: a demon sheep that Archie loves
-Lord Glendale: a young, white Chillingham bull with black muzzle and crimson ears; full of mischief
-Branson: man helping to pen the bull
-Scallowa: Archie's Shetland pony