Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The lame young Earthman looked at Carlin more closely. He had a thin,
pleasant brown face with intelligent blue eyes.

"Oh, an Earth-treatment man?" he said. "A few come in all the time." He
asked interestedly, "You're a Cosmic Engineer? Do you mind telling me
what field?"

"Star-ship line chief surveyor," Carlin said wearily. "That means I lay
out spaceport and beacon routes between star-worlds."

"I know what it means." The lame youngster nodded quietly. He
hesitated, frowning slightly as though weighing something. Then, as if
deciding, he spoke. "I'm Jonny Land. I think we could fix you up with
lodgings if you don't mind putting up with a little discomfort."

"You mean, in your own home?" Carlin asked doubtfully. "Where is it?"

Jonny Land pointed to one of the low green ridges west of the spaceport.

"Just up on the ridge there. There's only my grandfather, my brother
and sister, and myself. And we have an extra room."

The red-faced young Earthman made a sharp protest. "Jonny, what the
blazes are you thinking of? You don't want this fellow in with you!"

The violence of his protest seemed uncalled-for to Carlin, even
granting the general Earthman hostility to strangers.

Jonny Land quietly quelled the outburst. "I'm doing this, Loesser." He
looked at Carlin. "Well, what about it? I warn you that you won't find
the comforts of a big star-world apartment."

"I don't expect anything like that here," Carlin answered tiredly. He
felt worn out by the voyage, the discouragingly primitive aspect of
this place where he must live, the open unfriendliness. He nodded.
"I'll try it. The name is Laird Carlin."

"If you'll get your luggage, I'll take you up," Jonny Land suggested.
"I have a truck. I'll meet you over at the terminal."

Carlin came out of the shabby terminal a little later with his two
kitbags and found the lame youngster waiting at the wheel of a
disreputable-looking old ato-truck.

Loesser, the red-faced young man, was standing beside it voicing
emphatic protest about something. Carlin overheard a few words.

"--ruin everything by taking this fellow in!" he was saying violently.
"How do you know he isn't a Control spy?"

"I know what I'm doing, Loesser," Jonny Land repeated firmly.

They broke off as they saw Carlin coming. But Loesser gave him a hot,
angry glare as he climbed into the machine.

The old truck ran westward across the bumpy tarmac and started climbing
an ancient, cracked concrete road toward the green ridge.

Carlin wondered wearily what these Earthmen were up to that made them
afraid of Control? Smuggling, maybe? He didn't much care. He was hot,
tired, grimy with dust, and unutterably disgusted with Earth.

The concrete road that climbed the ridge looked as though it was
centuries old. And its engineering had been timid, for it wound around
hills instead of cutting through them, bridged small streams instead of
trampling over them. But the battered truck had difficulty negotiating
even these easy grades. Its ato-motor drumming noisily as it climbed.

Carlin looked out gloomily at the sunset-lit landscape. He could not
get used to the vivid, dominating green of all vegetation here. And
he was shocked by the unkempt, ragged look of everything. Untended
fields of weeds and clumps of woods grew right up to the road. It was
dismayingly different from the groomed, parklike planets of Canopus.

The houses Carlin glimpsed along the road added to his dislike. They
were mostly old ferroconcrete dwellings half-hidden by trees and
bright flowers, with behind them the big tanks used in hydroponic
farming. Hydroponic farming was so old-fashioned he had thought it had
disappeared from the galaxy. What was the matter with these people that
they didn't directly synthesize their food as others did?

Young Jonny Land was speaking to him.

"You've never been here before? You must find Earth a little odd."

Carlin shrugged. "It's all right, I suppose. But I just can't
understand how you people could let your planet get into this kind of
shape. Why haven't you spread out more, instead of huddling around a
few archaic centralized cities like that one back yonder?"


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is rather dry and matter-of-fact. There is no real emotional intensity, although there is a hint of tension between the two young men. The point of view is third person limited, focused on Carlin's perspective.