Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Fay leaned down and strained his eyes. The yellowish light from the open
pane sifted through the room. Its details came out like figures on a
fogged photograph-plate.

The man, trussed like a stuffed partridge, moved both legs and rolled
over. Fay saw a pasty countenance alongside a cap upon which was gold
braid. Purple waves mounted up this mans neck. The gag was a clever
one.

The embassys night-guard, said Fay in a whisper. Poor chap, I was
worried about you all along. Somebodys beaten me to it.

He realized with quick thought that the guard had been set upon by a
number of men who were now at work on the great strong-box upstairs in
the embassy. They had entered the building in some manner, surprised the
watchman, trussed and bound him and carried him down into the basement
where he would be safe.

Fay leaned over the guard and hissed into his ear:

Vas has happened?

This was as near the language of the Lowland country as he would ever
get.

Brumm! Brumm! choked the guard through the gag. Brumm! Brumm! Brumm!

All right, old fellow, said Fay, if thats the way you feel about the
matter. Ill leave you right here and go on. Cheaters have been cheated
before. Im going to take a lone hand.

Fay reached toward his pocket, drew out the American automatic and
pressed the cold muzzle against the guards purpling neck. He backed
away, crawled around the obstruction and started toward the flight of
steps at the front of the basement. He heard a slight movement above
him. Plaster or dust fell to the floor.

The craftsman took stock of the situation. He now could see every corner
of the room. The yellow light from the window aided his
cell-strengthened eyes. The five years at Dartmoor had made his sight
keen as a hawks.

He touched the first step with his hand, rested his weight on his palm,
and grasping the automatic, started upward toward the ground floor of
the building. He took his time and worked on the edge of the steps. Here
he knew the least sound would be made by a prowler. It was a little
trick stolen from the old days.

Coming to the next but the last step, he pressed his body against a side
wall, moved back the cocking mechanism of the automatic and advanced its
barrel, inch by inch.

There were certain sounds in that vast room which told him that the safe
was being ripped apart. Metal rasped against metal. Rivets were being
drawn. Asbestos or plaster of Paris fell to the floor. Also, there was
the squeaky swinging of a great door.

Fay peered around the corner and studied the view with dry smiling. It
was as if someone else was doing the work cut out for him. Forms moved
in the faint light. Oaths in German rolled from out the vault. A tool
clinked against another.

The light swung and revealed the picture. Fay studied it keenly. It was
framed in the mellow age of tapestries and portires and heavy
draperies. Portraits of former ambassadors stared from the walls.

The great outer door of the strong-box was open. The day door hung on
one hinge. A candle glowed within the safe. A man stood on a pile of
books. He was jabbing viciously at the keister door, which had resisted
his stoutest efforts.

Fay realized that this man was Dutch Gus. There was that in his burly
form and thick-lipped oaths to prove the fact. Two others of the German
mob were arranged about the strong-box. They were gathering up tools in
the belief that their leader would soon succeed in opening the inner
compartment.

The professional smile which changed upon Fays face to supreme disgust
would have caused Dutch Gus considerable concern had he seen it. Fay
hated a bungler worse than a squealer. The wreckage about the embassys
strong-box would have disgraced a gang of blacksmiths. It was the work
of tyros at the game.

He waited and watched. The hour was no later than one. There was ample
time to checkmate the Germans. It was evident that they had made a hasty
descent upon the embassy by order of someone high in authority. The
German Government was vastly interested in getting the key to the
cipher. Heaven and earth would be moved to keep it away from the English
or American agents.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of humor. The point of view is third person omniscient.