What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
II.

_A CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK._

It was no part of Squire Broadbent's plan to turn away old and
faithful servants.  He had to weed them though, and this meant
thinning out to such an extent that not over many were left.

The young and healthy creatures of inutility had to shift; but the
very old, the decrepit--those who had become stiff and grey in his
uncle's service--were pensioned off.  They were to stay for the rest
of their lives in the rural village adown the glen--bask in the sun
in summer, sit by the fire of a winter, and talk of the times when "t
'old Squire was aboot."

The servants settled with, and fresh ones with suitable "go" in them
established in their place, the live stock came in for reformation.

"St. Mary! what a medley!" exclaimed the Squire, as he walked through
the byres and stables, and past the styes.  "Everything bred anyhow.
No method in my uncle's madness.  No rules followed, no type.  Why
the quickest plan will be to put them all to the hammer."

This was cutting the Gordian-knot with a vengeance, but it was
perhaps best in the long run.

Next came renovation of the farm-steading itself; pulling down and
building, enlarging, and what not, and while this was going on, the
land itself was not being forgotten.  Fences were levelled and carted
away, and newer and airier ones put up, and for the most part three
and sometimes even five fields were opened into one.  There were
woods also to be seen to.  The new Squire liked woods, but the trees
in some of these were positively poisoning each other.  Here was a
larch-wood, for instance--those logs with the long, grey lichens on
them are part of some of the trees.  So closely do the larches grow
together, so white with moss, so stunted and old-looking, that it
would have made a merry-andrew melancholy to walk among them.  What
good were they?  Down they must come, and down they had come; and
after the ground had been stirred up a bit, and left for a summer to
let the sunshine and air into it, all the hill was replanted with
young, green, smiling pines, larches, and spruces, and that was
assuredly an improvement.  In a few years the trees were well
advanced; grass and primroses grew where the moss had crept about,
and the wood in spring was alive with the song of birds.

The mansion-house had been left intact.  Nothing could have added
much to the beauty of that.  It stood high up on a knoll, with rising
park-like fields behind, and at some considerable distance the blue
slate roofs of the farm-steading peeping up through the greenery of
the trees.  A solid yellow-grey house, with sturdy porch before the
hall-door, and sturdy mullioned windows, one wing ivy-clad, a broad
sweep of gravel in front, and beyond that, lawns and terraces, and
flower and rose-gardens.  And the whole overlooked a river or stream,
that went winding away clear and silvery till it lost itself in
wooded glens.

The scenery was really beautiful all round, and in some parts even
wild; while the distant views of the Cheviot Hills lent a charm to
everything.

There was something else held sacred by the Squire as well as the
habitable mansion, and that was Burley Old Castle.  Undoubtedly a
fortress of considerable strength it had been in bygone days, when
the wild Scots used to come raiding here, but there was no name for
it now save that of a "ruin."  The great north tower still stood firm
and bold, and three walls of the lordly hall, its floor green with
long, rank grass; the walls themselves partly covered with ivy, with
broom growing on the top, which was broad enough for the half-wild
goats to scamper along.

There was also the donjon keep, and the remains of a _fosse_; but all
the rest of this feudal castle had been unceremoniously carted away,
to erect cowsheds and pigstyes with it.

"So sinks the pride of former days,
When glory's thrill is o'er."


No, Squire Broadbent did not interfere with the castle; he left it to
the goats and to Archie, who took to it as a favourite resort from
the time he could crawl.

But these--all these--new-fangled notions the neighbouring squires
and farmers bold could easily have forgiven, had Broadbent not
carried his craze for machinery to the very verge of folly.  So they
thought.  Such things might be all very well in America, but they
were not called for here.  Extraordinary mills driven by steam, no
less wonderful-looking harrows, uncanny-like drags and drilling
machines, sowing and reaping machines that were fearfully and
wonderfully made, and ploughs that, like the mills, were worked by
steam.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the setting and to introduce the reader to the main character. The author achieves this by describing the scene in detail and by introducing the character of Squire Broadbent.