What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
The contour of the country was such that the attack must have been made
from in front. Matson put himself in place of the raiders, and guessed
with fair accuracy their plan of operations. The sun had already melted
most of the snow, and for hours he quartered over the ground, examining
tracks that the untrained eye would never have seen. Sometimes a bit of
broken brush, sometimes a leaf trampled into the ground, told him what
he wanted to know. Again, it was a worn heel plate that stood out to him
like a signpost on the road. Twice he picked up an empty shell that had
been thrown out of a rifle during the rush forward.

The boot tracks, faint though they were, led him to the pine grove where
the horses had been tethered. Here he went down on his hands and knees,
studying the details of every hoofprint that differentiated it from
others. The care with which he did this, the intentness of his
observation, would have surprised and perhaps amused a tenderfoot. An
unskilled tracker, though he might be a Sherlock Holmes in the city,
could have discovered nothing here worth learning. Matson found
registered marks of identification for horses as certain as those of the
Bertillon system for criminals.

With amazing pains he traced the retreat of the raiders to the Three
Pines. It was a very difficult piece of trailing, for the snow had wiped
out the tracks entirely for stretches of hundreds of yards. Once it was
a splash of tobacco juice on a flat rock that told him he was still on
the heels of those he wanted. In Shoshone County men will still tell you
that Aleck Matsons feat of running down the night raiders in spite of
an intervening snowstorm was the best bit of trailing they ever knew.

From the Three Pines the tracks of most of the party took the sheriff
straight to the Circle Diamond Ranch. He dropped in just in time to join
Mrs. Stovall at her midday dinner.

They exchanged the casual gossip of the neighbourhood. Presently he
steered the talk in the direction he wanted.

Mac is up at the round-up, I reckon.

Yes. He drove a bunch of cattle down last night.

So? Any of the boys with him?

Three of them. They stayed in the bunk house.

Ive been wanting to see Art Philips. Was he one of them?

No. Young Silcott and Jack Cole and Hal Falkner.

Went back this morning, did they? asked Matson casually. He gave
rather the impression that he was making conversation to pass the time.

Right after breakfast.

Jack Cole was talking about trading me a Winchester. Dont suppose he
had it with him.

No. Hal Falkner had one. A deer had been seen near camp, and he brought
it on the chance he might see it again.

I like a .30-30 for deer myself. Didnt happen to notice what Falkner
carried?

Mrs. Stovall shook her head. A gun is a gun to me.

When it comes to guns I reckon a man and a woman are made different. I
never see one without wanting to look it over. Mac was going to show me
one of his next time I came up to the ranch. I dont suppose

All his guns are in that little room off the living room, as Mrs. McCoy
calls the parlour. Go in and look em over if you like.

The sheriff thanked her and availed himself of the chance. When he came
out he found Mrs. Stovall clearing off the table.

Expect the boys were glad to come down and eat a home-cooked meal at a
real table. Ill bet they were so frolicsome at getting away from camp
that they kept you up all hours of the night.

They woke me when they first came, but I soon fell asleep. Likely they
were tired and turned right in.

Sounds reasonable. Well, Ill be moving along, Mrs. Stovall. Much
obliged for that peach cobbler like Mother used to make.

On his way to the stable Matson dropped in at the bunk house. He made
the discovery that at least one of McCoys guests had lain on top of the
blankets and not under them. Nor had he taken the trouble to remove his
boots. The mud stains of the heels were plainly printed on the wool.

The officer smiled. Just made a bluff of lying down; figured it wasnt
worth while taking off his boots for a few minutes. Ill bet that was
Falkner. Hes a roughneck, anyhow.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to establish the sheriff's expertise as a tracker, and to establish a possible suspect in the case of the night raiders.