What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Only cautious and conservative, whispered Mrs. Lucien.

Conservatism, what crimes of doubt and unbelief are committed in thy
name! responded the other.

By this time people were beginning to file into the room, until the
chairs were filled.

Our friends sat down near the door, where the hard-coal fire cast a dim
light into the room, and directly opposite the cabinet. No other light
was left in the room after the entrance of the medium.

This person, who was tall and large-framed, and who weighed apparently
about two hundred and fifty pounds, walked over to the tete and sat
down.

I will sit here for a time, and perhaps we may have a manifestation
before I am under control, she said. Will anybody please sing.

The spectators began to sing religious hymns, and almost immediately, to
Mrs. Wylies astonishment, the curtains parted by invisible power and a
little figure of light, with indistinguishable features, stepped forth.

Good-evening, everybody. How do you do? came from it in a thin, piping
voice.

Some of those present, who had evidently seen the apparition before,
addressed it as Starlight, and the vision vanished.

The medium then arose and stepped into the cabinet. No sooner had she
done so than three or four mens voices were heard speaking together.
One, a Jack Tar, with nautical phrases; another, the guttural voice of
the American Indian, a third that of an educated citizen.

Some in the audience seemed to recognize and greet the voices.

After a period of quiet and another hymn the curtains again parted and a
slender woman appeared. No one approached her as she stood before them
and delivered a short oration, the theme of which was Universal
Progress, the diction and thought in no wise remarkable.

She withdrew to give place to another figure, which called a name in a
soft, plaintive voice.

Oh, it is my wife! cried a man in the audience, and he went forward,
and grasping the materialized spirit by the arm, he led her forward
about the room, while she shook hands with other friends who seemed to
recognize her.

Mrs. Wylie shook in an agony of apprehension.

Dont, dont let her come near me! she gasped, while her heart beat to
suffocation. She looked at the white, eager face of Mrs. Lucien, and the
not less interested face of her husband. She clutched him by the arm,
while she grew hot and cold by turns. But the figure turned away before
reaching her, and stepped back into the cabinet. Then several others
came out and were recognized, kissed, and spoken to by friends.

At length came the figure of a man, who spoke in a faint voice.

The usher came to the lady sitting next to Mrs. Wylie upon the left.

It is for you, he said.

The lady arose, went across the room to the cabinet, clasped the figure
in her arms, calling him her dear brother, and when he disappeared came
back to her seat, sobbing and crying bitterly.

Mrs. Wylie wrung her hands in the pause of darkness and silence which
followed.

Oh! Mrs. Lucien, Mrs. Lucien, the next will be for you, she whispered.
As if to confirm her words a figure of light advanced, so clear, so
luminous, so fair that a suppressed murmur arose from the spectators. It
seemed to float through the air and hover suspended before the cabinet.
Mrs. Lucien had arisen and moved forward with outstretched arms.

Mamma, mamma! a bird-like voice repeated, and fluttering like a bird
in the air the tiny hands brushed the white face of the entranced woman.
Then by its side a second figure appeared, larger but less distinct. For
a moment they hovered flutteringly before her, then disappeared, and the
usher led the now nearly fainting Mrs. Lucien to her seat.

Another figure appeared, a man. A woman behind Mrs. Wylie arose and went
forward.

O Jim! she cried.

I have been so sorry, a feeble, moaning voice replied, that I did not
do more for you when in the flesh. I had no opportunity, before I passed
over, to tell you what was in my heart. I realize now that I blighted
your life by selfishly yielding to my appetite. I would undo it all if I
could, but it is too late. With a groan he disappeared.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the power of the medium and to
demonstrate the various ways in which the spirits can communicate with
the living. The author also achieves the goal of creating a sense of
suspense and fear in the reader.