Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
With their plaintive, hoarse cry they fly in disconcerting zig-zags at
an incredible speed. You aim to the right and when the wind has blown
away the smoke you see the little grey bird vanishing in the dim
distance on the left.

In the midst of these Hanoverian marshes, so like our marshes of the
Landes, Aurora of Lautenburg was even more beautiful than in all her
finery at the palace. Wearing a feather toque and huge but shapely
top-boots, she jumped as lightly as a bird over the sodden turf. The
yellow mist of that water-laden atmosphere seemed to cast a pale mauve
halo about her. Marais shot calmly and well. Little Hagen was fussy
and always fired too soon. I was a much better shot than either of these
two, but what a poor figure I cut beside the Grand Duchess!

Leaving us the rail and duck, she devoted her attention exclusively to
the snipe. Gradually night came down on the watery waste. The sky turned
to burnished copper in a last conflagration. The great pools were sheets
of green which grew darker and darker. A thin tongue of flame began to
leap from the barrel of our guns every time we fired, a tongue which
became redder as the darkness grew more intense.

It was the Grand Duchess's hour. Her diabolical spaniel was everywhere
at once. We could hear the snipe start up before her and her repeated
cries of "Heel!" Neither Marais, Hagen nor I could see them at all.
But Aurora saw them all right; each of her shots brought down a little
grey bird.

We would wait for a second. Then out of the darkness came the sound of
rustling grass. The spaniel, dripping, black and shining, with his eyes
full of phosphorus, suddenly appeared, bearing the dead snipe to his
mistress.

It was now quite dark. In the low sky an invisible procession of cranes
passed over our heads, with remote, raucous cries. The Grand Duchess
took the bird from her dog. We went up. I saw her run her fingers over
the poor little body, still warm. No wound could be seen, nothing to
reveal the presence of that tiny ball of lead, or the imperceptible
black hole whence that little life had fled.

Then, with that inconsequence which is the hallmark of the sportsman,
Aurora raised the inert little head to her lips and kissed it.




VI


IT was on Saturday evening, May 16th, 1914, that the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg did me the honour of telling me the story of her life. Let me
repeat that story to you, not only because certain of its incidents are
absolutely indispensable to a proper understanding of the drama which is
fast approaching its climax, but above all because it gives me an
exquisite pleasure to open this jewel-case and handle the beautiful,
barbaric stones it contains, gems which will always light me through my
blackest hour.

Hagen had had to go to a dinner, given by the 7th Hussars, and was not
there. It gave me no small pleasure to see that she was always more open
with me in his absence, however casually she treated that moody and
stubborn adorer.

Reclining on the white bearskin thrown over her _chaise-longue_, she was
dressed that evening in a very loose, light tunic of yellow Turkish
silk, embroidered in mauve and silver.

Every now and then she passed her fingers through a bowl of huge roses
standing on a low table close by, and we could hear the petals falling
softly on the blue carpet.

Melusine, her hair shaken loose, was sitting on the carpet, resting her
drooping head on the bare feet of her mistress, which she clasped in her
arms from time to time.

From the chair where I was sitting I could see the voluptuous curves of
the girl's smooth throat in the opening of her Valenciennes fichu. The
window was open behind the drawn curtains, and the night breeze, wafting
them apart from time to time, mingled the balmy scents of the
_Herrenwald_ with the heady odours of amber, roses and cigarettes.

With her utter indifference to effect or style, Aurora spoke, mixing up
three languages and interchanging the French "you," the German third
person, and the Russian "thou."


"I expect you know," she began, "that I did not exactly go up in the
world when I married. Once a princess, I am now no more than
grand-duchess, and though I am allied to the Hohenzollerns my husband's
family is not nearly as old as my own.


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

The Grand Duchess of Lautenburg tells the story of her life to the narrator. She begins by discussing her marriage, which was not a happy one. She then tells the story of her love affair with a Russian grand duke, which ended in tragedy. Finally, she tells the story of her current situation, in which she is being blackmailed by her husband's mistress.