Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Gentlemen of the jury! exclaimed the coroner, another such insult on
the part of that witness and I will put him in arrest for assault. You
have heard him threaten me. The whole case is one of suspicion, in my
opinion. This man runs away with a lady under age, whom he believes to
be an heiress, and the very day he finds out his mistake she is found
thrown over the cliffs, under every appearance of there having been
foul play. The witness would have us believe that he, a bridegroom not
two days married, left his young wife for six mortal hours to indulge
in swimming--that when she was missed, he made every effort to find
her, that he even went along the cliffs where she lay dead, and never
saw her body.

But the body lay _under_ the cliffs, interposed a juror; and the
gentleman walked along them. He couldnt have found her unless he had
descended to the beach.

Thats right, Mr Colly, said Procter, spitefully; always interrupt
at the most important moments. The witness has eyes in his head. I
suppose he could have looked over--if he had been very energetic in
his search he _would_ have looked over. And what was he doing all that
time? And is it likely the deceased would have ascended the cliffs by
herself, in a place where she had never been before. You have heard the
witness of the landlord and waiters of the hotel, to the effect that
they never saw the deceased leave the hotel after her husband--that
she must have been gone almost as long as he was, for another witness,
Mr Hindes, called twice with the view of seeing her, and each time
she was out. Now, where was she all that time, if she were not, as is
most probable, with her husband? Dr MColl gave us his opinion that
the deceased might have been thrown over the cliffs, or she might have
fallen over, or she might have thrown herself over on purpose. Now,
it seems to me highly improbable that a young woman of twenty should
tumble over such a place by mistake--still less that she should have
committed suicide the very day after her marriage; but words lead to
quarrels, gentlemen, and quarrels lead to pushing sometimes, and a
hasty push is a very dangerous thing, you know, when near a steep
cliff. I dont wish to bias your decision in this matter in any degree.
If you find the deceased came by her death by misadventure you will
give your verdict to that effect, but if you think the circumstances
are such as to demand a stricter inquiry, you will say so. I leave the
case in your hands now, and I feel sure you will do it justice!

The jury shambled out of the room, and Frederick looked up into his
cousins face with open eyes that were half mystified and half alarmed.

Philip! what does that man mean? He cannot--no! it would be too
gross--too impossible!--he cannot mean us to understand that he
suspects me--_me_ of having had any hand in this misfortune?

Hush! Fred; hush! replied Philip, laying his hand soothingly on the
others arm; never mind what he says or thinks. He is a cad--any one
can see that--in mind as well as breeding. Let the brute think what he
likes. He cannot make others agree with him, and all your friends will
know that you are innocent in the matter as far as the poor girls
death is concerned.

But to be suspected, and by a creature like that--I, who would have
given my worthless life for hers a thousand times over. My God! it is
hard!

Philip squeezed his hand.

I know it! It is part of the trial, but it will soon be over now! Here
are the jury! They have not been long in coming to a decision.

Well, gentlemen, and what is your verdict? demanded Mr Procter, with
an unctuous smack of his lips, as if he longed to hear them say they
considered that there had been foul play in the matter.

Our verdict, sir, replied the spokesman; is that the deceased came
by her death from a fall over the cliffs, but whether she was thrown
over or fell over by accident there is not sufficient evidence to show!

It is unsatisfactory that your verdict should be undecided, said the
coroner; had you not better reconsider it?

We are quite unanimous on the subject, sir; and we would like to add
a rider to the effect that some sort of fence should be put along the
edge of the cliffs to prevent accidents in future.

Very well, if you are agreed, it is no use detaining you any longer,
said Procter, with an aggrieved air, for he had quite made up his own
mind that Frederick Walcheren had killed his wife; you have only to
sign the papers and end the proceedings.

As soon as they were set at liberty, Philip hurried his cousin out of
the room, for Frederick was in that reckless condition that he dreaded
what he might say or do to the coroner. Here they found that the body
of poor Jenny had already been moved to an upper chamber by the orders
of Mr Crampton, and was being prepared by womens hands for its last
receptacle. That she should have been touched without his authority
made her husband furious.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is dramatic, with a touch of suspense. The reader is not sure what the verdict will be, and the characters are also uncertain. There is a sense of foreboding, as if something bad is about to happen.