What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
As his eyesight returned, Dave looked around curiously. The laboratory
was still around him, but it had the same semi-ghostly appearance that
Claverly and Phelps had had. Of the images of the two physicists Dave
could see nothing. They had been there, faintly visible, when he had
gone in. Now they were gone. Dave looked at the workbench. He passed a
hand through it. He stamped on the floor and found that he was stamping
_through_ the floor; he was actually standing on a semi-smooth surface
a few inches below it.

"Damn!" he swore. He looked around. The concrete walls of the building
were heavy and thick; he could not see clearly through them. He walked
forward, hands outstretched, and saw his hands enter the wall. He
walked through the wall, and felt a slight resistance, as though he
were walking through water. He burst through the far side and the
released pressure pitched him headlong.

Once outside, Dave looked around. In the ghostly distance he could see
the main laboratory building and the jeep bearing Jane, DeLieb, and
Howes. They came to the building and Dave ran to meet them.

"I'm here," he called. He screamed it. He yelled at the top of his
voice. Jane walked through him. Her face was broken, tears filled her
eyes, and Dave tried desperately to get her attention. But she walked
through him and went on. They went in the door; Dave walked back
through the phantom wall and met them inside.

"Dave!" cried Jane. She ran across the room and reached--then recoiled,
her face twisted in horror.

"Like Claverly, like Phelps," she whispered.

"Like hell!" yelled Dave. "Dammitall, I'm here!"

"Gone!" said Jane.

"I'm not gone!" snapped Dave. But a still voice inside him said that he
was. He looked carefully at the place Jane watched with horror-filled
eyes. He could see nothing. Then he went to Jane and peered into her
eyes. The pupils were clear. Dave snorted. If he could not see the
image of himself that Jane saw, there was no reason why he could see a
possible reflection of that image in her pupils.

"So he proved it," said DeLieb.

"And so we continue, knowing that something or someone is maliciously
attacking us," said Howes.

"It's mine," said Jane in a flat voice.

"No--" said DeLieb.

"I want to follow him," she said.

"Don't be a fool!" yelled Dave.

He ran to the crystal and slapped at it. It hurt. With a glad cry, Dave
pried at it with his fingers. The clamping electrodes held it firm--and
he could not touch them, for they were as thin and tenuous as the
concrete wall through which he had walked. Only the crystal was solid
both _there_ and _here_.

Dave smiled sourly. If he was dead, then this was a fine psychological
hell. Here he was watching friends and a loved one marching into deadly
danger, listening to their grief and their dangerous plans, while he
was completely helpless to guide them.

He felt the crystal move slightly under his straining fingers. Wrapping
a handkerchief about his fist, Dave punched at the crystal. It gave--or
on the other side, the clamping electrodes gave. At any rate, it was
loose.

He hit it again and jarred it.

"The crystal!" cried Jane. "It's moving!"

"Blow-up!" yelled DeLieb.

But this time there was no panic. Howes cut the energizing power with a
flick of his hands across the toggle switches. DeLieb clamped down on
the electrodes with a hand and spun the wingnuts that held it with the
other. Jane Nolan grabbed at the crystal as it came free and turned to
the pneumatic delivery tube.

But Dave reached out a hand and snatched it from her.

Jane cried in pain and fear, and watched the crystal make three long
swoops towards the concrete wall--Dave had grabbed it and started to
run outside. The crystal was wrenched from his fingers as he went
through the wall. It fell to the floor, and all three physicists
swooped down upon it.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to show the reader that Dave is now a ghost, and to establish the conflict that he faces in trying to help his friends from the afterlife.