Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The Arcturian nodded, and shrugged.

"And to psychologists," he said quietly. "Most people these days don't
realize something. They don't realize that we, all of us, are still
really Earthmen in a way." He held up a protesting hand. "Oh, I know
we don't think of ourselves like that! Since those first Earthmen
pioneered to their neighbor planets and then to the stars, since our
civilization spread out over most of the galaxy, a hundred generations
of us have been born on different star-worlds from Rigel to Fomalhaut.
But except for local modifications, the type of humanity has persisted
since our ancestors left Earth and Sol long ago.

"That's because we've altered star-world conditions to fit ourselves,
instead of adapting ourselves to those conditions. We've cunningly
changed atmospheres, gravities, everything, wherever we went. We've
kept ourselves one race, one type, that way. But it's a type that is
still indexed to that old plane Earth as its norm."

"Does that explain why I have to give up my work and go live on the old
relic for a year?" Carlin demanded furiously.

"Yes, it does," the Arcturian replied. "We're a star-traveling race
now. But the mind can take only so much of the strain of star-travel.
Overdo that strain and you get a revulsion, you get star-sickness. Then
the only cure is rest for the mind in completely normal conditions. And
complete normality, for us descendants of Earthmen, is--Earth."

Carlin had stormed. He carried his wrathful resistance to the last
pitch.

And then the psychotherapist had crushed him.

"I've turned in your psycho-record to your star-ship line. You'll not
be allowed to work there until you're cured."

And that, Laird Carlin thought bitterly, was why he was sprawled in a
deck-chair here on the "Larkoom" as the old tub creaked and labored and
plodded through space toward the yellow spark of Sol.

"A year!" he thought in impotent rage. "A year in that hole! I might as
well be dead."

The psychotherapist had held out the hope that it might not take a
year. Some cases of star-sickness responded quickly to Earth-treatment.
But even a few months seemed an eternity to Carlin.

The passengers of the "Larkoom" were crowding toward the transparent
wall of the deck. Earth was coming into sight. And these people--men
and women bronzed by the glare of Canopus, reddened by the desert winds
of Rigel's worlds, paled by the mists of Altair's planets--all were
watching with an intense and eager expectation.

Carlin walked wearily over to the deck wall and watched with them.
Sol, ahead, was a small and undistinguished yellow sun. Its orb was
unimpressive to eyes that had looked on Antares and Altair.

And the planets that circled it were so little that Carlin could
hardly make them out. He remembered half-forgotten names from ancient
history--Saturn, Jupiter, Mars. And that little gray-green dot beyond
must be Earth.

"Isn't it tiny?" babbled a rapturous, overweight woman beside Carlin.
"I think it's cute!"

A very young man from Mizar Seven proudly aired his knowledge.

"That satellite beyond it is Luna, its moon."

"The moon is almost as big as the little planet!" exclaimed someone,
laughing.

Carlin found their chatter getting on his nerves, and edged further
along the deck. In gloomy silence, he looked down as the "Larkoom"
swept in swift, almost soundless rush toward the little planet.

A gray-green, cloud-screened ball spinning around a second-rate sun--it
looked like the end of the universe to Carlin. And he might have to
spend a year here! His spirits sank still lower.

"They say you can get the most wonderful souvenirs here," one of the
tourists' voices reached him.

Carlin writhed. He would be glad to get out even at Earth, to get away
from this bunch of babbling fools.

He realized his irritability was extreme, unreasonable. It was the
result of his star-sickness, he supposed. But that didn't make it any
more endurable.

"Landing in ten minutes," spoke the annunciators throughout the ship.
"Stasis going on."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is rather formal and clinical. The narrator is third person omniscient, and the tone is detached and objective.