Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
I.

"_SPOKEN LIKE HIS FATHER'S SON._"

"Cheer, boys, cheer, no more of idle sorrow,
Courage, true hearts shall bear us on our way;
Hope flies before, and points the bright to-morrow,
Let us forget the dangers of to-day."


That dear old song!  How many a time and oft it has helped to raise
the drooping spirits of emigrants sailing away from these loved
islands, never again to return!

The melody itself too is such a manly one.  Inez dear, bring my
fiddle.  Not a bit of bravado in that ringing air, bold and all
though it is.  Yet every line tells of British ardour and
determination--ardour that no thoughts of home or love can cool,
determination that no danger can daunt.

"Cheer, boys, cheer."  The last rays of the setting sun were lighting
up the Cornish cliffs, on which so few in that good ship would ever
again set eyes, when those around the forecastle-head took up the
song.

"Cheer, boys, cheer."  Listen!  Those on the quarterdeck join in the
chorus, sinking in song all difference of class and rank.  And they
join, too, in that rattling "Three times three" that bids farewell to
England.

Then the crimson clouds high up in the west change to purple and
brown, the sea grows grey, and the distant shore becomes slaty blue.
Soon the stars peep out, and the passengers cease to tramp about, and
find their way below to the cosily-lighted saloon.

Archie is sitting on a sofa quite apart from all the others.  The
song is still ringing in his head, and, if the whole truth must be
told, he feels just a trifle down-hearted.  He cannot quite account
for this, though he tries to, and his thoughts are upon the whole
somewhat rambling.  They would no doubt be quite connected if it were
not for the distracting novelty of all his present surroundings,
which are as utterly different from anything he has hitherto become
acquainted with as if he had suddenly been transported to another
planet.

No, he cannot account for being dull.  Perhaps the motion of the ship
has something to do with it, though this is not a very romantic way
of putting it.  Archie has plenty of moral courage; and as the ship
encountered head winds, and made a long and most difficult passage
down through the Irish Sea, he braced himself to get over his morsel
of _mal de mer_, and has succeeded.

He is quite cross with himself for permitting his mind to be tinged
with melancholy.  That song ought to have set him up.

"Why should we weep to sail in search of fortune?"

Oh, Archie is not weeping; catch him doing anything so girlish and
peevish!  He would not cry in his cabin where he could do so without
being seen, and it is not likely he would permit moisture to appear
in his eyes in the saloon here.  Yet his home never did seem to him
so delightful, so cosy, so happy, as the thoughts of it do now.  Why
had he not loved it even more than he did when it was yet all around
him?  The dear little green parlour, his gentle lady mother that used
to knit so quietly by the fire in the winter's evenings, listening
with pleasure to his father's daring schemes and hopeful plans.  His
bonnie sister, Elsie, so proud of him--Archie; Rupert, with his pale,
classical face and gentle smile; matter-of-fact Walton; jolly old
Uncle Ramsay.  They all rose up before his mind's eye as they had
been; nay but as they might be even at that very moment.  And the
room in the tower, the evenings spent there in summer when daylight
was fading over the hills and woods, and the rooks flying wearily
home to their nests in the swaying elm trees; or in winter when the
fire burned brightly on the hearth, and weird old Kate sat in her
high-hacked chair, telling her strange old-world stories, with
Branson, wide-eyed, fiddle in hand, on a seat near her, and
Bounder--poor Bounder--on the bear's skin.  Then the big kitchen, or
servants' hall--the servants that all loved "master Archie" so
dearly, and laughed and enjoyed every prank he used to play.

Dear old Burley! should he ever see it again?  A week has not passed
since he left it, and yet it seems and feels a lifetime.

He was young a week ago; now he is old, very old--nearly a man.
Nearly?  Well, nearly in years; in thoughts, and feelings, and
circumstances even--quite a man.  But then he should not feel
down-hearted for this simple reason; he had left home under such
bright auspices.  Many boys run away to sea.  The difference between
their lot and his is indeed a wide one.  Yes, that must be very sad.
No home-life to look back upon, no friends to think of or love, no
pleasant present, no hopeful future.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

1. Archie: The protagonist of the scene. He is sitting on a sofa, feeling down-hearted. He is trying to figure out why he feels this way.
2. The other passengers: They are all in the saloon, singing a song.
3. Archie's thoughts: They are of his home and family. He is thinking of how different his life is from those of the other passengers on the ship.