What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
Elizabeth sat at one of the round tables by an open casement window.

It looked on to a grass terrace bordered by brilliant galadias. Beyond
the galadias was a tiny stream, rippling, amber-coloured, over rounded
stones. Beyond the stream was a grassy hill, sloping upwards to a
beech-wood. Beyond that again was the blue sky.

It really is extraordinarily pleasant, said Elizabeth.

And then she turned to her coffee pot. The coffee poured into a blue
and white cup, she was stirring it thoughtfully, when the door opened.

A man paused for the merest fraction of a second on the threshold. It
evidently came as a bit of a surprise to him to find the room already
occupied.

Elizabeth looked at the man. The man looked at Elizabeth.

She saw a big man in loose tweeds, shabby tweeds, which had seen much
service. She saw a square-faced man, with a mat of darkish red hair.

He saw a glossy-haired, brown-haired woman, a woman with a palely
bronzed skin, beneath which there was an underglow of red, a woman
with red lips finely moulded, with a square chin, with a delicately
chiselled nose, with steady grey eyes in which there was an under-note
of something akin to laughter. She wore a cream-coloured cotton dress.
A pink la France rose was tucked into the front of her gown.

David, used to the rapid assimilation of details, saw all this at a
glance. Then he crossed to the table in the other window. It had been
laid so that it faced hers, and fearing lest he should appear guilty of
an obtrusive staring, he gazed out of the window.

The arrival of his breakfast providing occupation for hands and eyes,
David turned to the table. A moment later he found that the sugar had
been forgotten.

Now, the Green Man is devoid of bells. In some ways it is distinctly
primitive. A brass knocker on the front door announces the arrival of
visitors. For the rest your own vocal cords are employed.

Ordinarily David would have gone to the door and shouted, but the
presence of Elizabeth causing some absurd little diffidence in his
mind, he sipped his coffee unsweetened. To a sweet-toothed man
non-sugared coffee is peculiarly unpalatable. He set down his cup with
a half-grimace, and glanced round the room. By good luck there might be
a sugar bowl on an unoccupied table. There was not.

Elizabeth had noticed the former hesitation; she had likewise noticed
the slight grimace, and the present unavailing glance around the room.
Two and two were put rapidly together in her mind. She gave her own
sugar bowl a slight push.

Here is some sugar, said she in her pleasant voice.

It was a most trifling incident. At the moment David merely said Thank
you, and availed himself of the proffered bowl. Twenty minutes later,
meeting in the garden by the stream, it gave a slight excuse for
speech. It gave Elizabeth the excuse for speech. You may be sure David
would never have ventured on it.

What a dreamy spot! said she, turning with a smile.

If you knew Elizabeth well, you would know that this was one of her
favourite adjectives. It summed up at once beauty, picturesqueness,
colour, and entire enjoyment of anything.

It is good, said David briefly.

Elizabeths eyes twinkled. She liked the speech. It was in this
fashion, so we are told, that God regarded His Creation,--that is
before Mother Eve, beguiled by the old Serpent, had upset matters. Yet
after all, in spite of his upsettings, there are times and places which
yet fill us with some faint sense of that pristine perfection.

Of course Elizabeth knew perfectly well who he was. That may well go
without saying. But, in spite of John having said that he was a decent
fellow, he wasnt in the remotest degree like her mental conception of
him.

She had pictured him a big man--which he truly was, also a bluff man,
a jovial man, a talker, a bit loud-voiced, perhaps a trifle assertive,
at all events very confident of himself, and all these things he was
not. It had not taxed Elizabeths intuition very vastly to perceive
that, contrary to all her expectations, there was an extraordinary
diffidence about him. He wasnt the least certain of himself, he wasnt
the least jovial nor loud-voiced, while something in his eyes,--well,
I have mentioned his eyes before. Somehow Elizabeths mind swung to
her little dusty-haired, grey-eyed Patrick in Ireland. She saw him in
the throes of grappling with one of those world problems to which the
cleverest of us can find but a poor answer, heard a small voice say
wearily:


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the two main characters, Elizabeth and David, and to establish their initial impressions of each other. The author also uses the scene to establish the setting and tone of the story.