Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
"That I cannot," said Rob firmly.

"Then follow me," was all the answer Muckle John gave, and putting a
huge rock between them and their enemies, they ran swiftly slant-wise
up the slope until they reached the summit, where for a moment Muckle
John looked back.  The great half-moon formation of the ascending
Highlanders was moving quickly upwards.

"This is no red-coat work," he gasped, "but tartan against tartan,
and fox hunting fox," and away they went along the opposite side of
the hill, just low enough to miss the sky-line.

As luck would have it that part of the hill was very bare and empty
of cover, and ere they had gone half a mile a distant shout warned
them that they were seen, and that the whole force of their pursuers
was now upon their line of flight.

Rob saw a sudden tightening of Muckle John's mouth, and now it ceased
to be a game of hide and seek, but a race for dear life.  The pace
was terrible.  Rob's lungs were bursting with the straining, so that
red flashes of light swam before his eyes.

"Quicker!" cried Muckle John, "they are gaining!  Oh, can ye no mak'
a sprint, Rob--only a hundred yards?"

For a while Rob struggled on, stumbling and gasping, until at last
his foot caught in a tuft of heather, and he fell heavily to the
ground.  Without a word or pause, Muckle John, who was leading by
some ten feet, turned swiftly, and picking him up, continued his wild
race for the broken rocks that lay before them.

Two hundred yards behind came the foremost Highlanders, leaping over
the ground in bounds, their claymores ready in their hands.  A
minute, and Muckle John had passed among the rocks, then doubling
right and left, he sped towards a monstrous boulder, and scrambling
up, pulled Rob on top.  Now on the back of this boulder lay another
great stone poised upon it, and carrying Rob over his shoulder, he
clambered up and so to a cleft in the side of the precipice which
fronted the hill.

Rob had been too blinded by exhaustion to notice that before them lay
what was apparently a cul-de-sac with bare crag on every side, and
had he done so he would have realized why the Highlanders had bared
their swords.  For they were to all appearances in a death-trap.

But Muckle John, wiping his brow with the sleeve of his coat, seemed
well enough content, and placing Rob upon the barren cleft, he turned
about and looked down upon the scene below.  His assailants were
gathered about the rock on which he had first sprung, and were
debating what course to take.  Far behind came the main body, and
still farther away, Ephraim Macaulay.

"Rob," said Muckle John, "have you your wind yet?"

The boy groaned in reply, but struggled to his feet.

"Now," said Muckle John, "I am not the daft fool ye no doubt take me
for--there is a way up this cliff only known to me and one other.
You see this cleft?  It runs for fifty yards in a slanting direction,
and there's little enough foothold.  There is a break at the corner
there and a bit jump of maybe two feet, but no easy, with just a bare
rock and six inches to land on.  But dinna waver or lose heart, for
there's no return and it's certain death to bide here.  After that,
climb straight up, but leaning to the left, and when ye reach a small
tree-stump wait for me, for then it becomes no easy matter."

For a moment Rob hesitated, but Muckle John pushed him gently on the
shoulder.

"It's death here," said he again, "for they can go back and reach the
top in two hours." Then in a leisurely manner he drew his claymore to
hold the rock against assault.

Knowing that if he hesitated he was lost, Rob set foot upon the
narrow path that ran along the smooth edge of rock, and never looking
down for fear of turning giddy, he wormed his way upwards, feeling
every foot of the slippery surface.

A sudden silence fell upon the onlookers below, and then a harsh
noise of voices reached him, and a moment later a stone crashed on
the rock within a foot of his head.

"Haud tight, Rob," shouted Muckle John; "dinna mind them!" and
whipping out his pistol he fired, shattering the arm of another man
who was poised for his aim.

Had any one of them there carried a musket, Rob would have been shot
like a crow, but as Muckle John shrewdly guessed, no one of that
ragged crew had more than cold steel, though that was ready should
the boy falter and fall.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Muckle John and Rob are being pursued by a group of Highlanders. John leads Rob up a hill to the summit, where they are seen, and the pursuers give chase. John and Rob make a run for it, but Rob falls and John has to carry him. They make it to a cul-de-sac, where John sets Rob down and tells him to climb up the cliff face. Rob does so, while John holds off their pursuers. They make it to the top and escape.