Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
X.

_RUMOURS OF WAR._

As soon as Squire Broadbent read his son's letter he carefully folded
it up, and with a smile on his face handed it to Rupert.  And
by-and-bye, when Captain Vesey returned, and settled into the family
circle with the rest, and had told them all he could remember about
Archie and Burley New Farm in Australia, the brother and sister,
followed by Bounder, slipped quietly out and told old Kate they were
going to the tower.  Would she come?  That she would.  And so for
hours they all sat up there before the fire talking of Archie, and
all he had done and had been, and laying plans and dreaming dreams,
and building castles in the air, just in the same way that young
folks always have done in this world, and will, I daresay, continue
to do till the end of time.

But that letter bore fruit, as we shall see.

Things went on much as usual in the Bush.  Winter passed away, spring
came round and lambing season, and the shepherds were busy once more.
Gentleman Craig made several visits to the home farm, and always
brought good news.  It was a glorious time in every way; a more
prosperous spring among the sheep no one could wish to have.

On his last visit to the house Craig stayed a day or two, and Archie
went back with him, accompanied by a man on horseback, with medicines
and some extra stores--clothing and groceries, &c., I mean, for in
those days live stock was sometimes called stores.

They made Findlayson's the first night, though it was late.  They
found that the honest Scot had been so busy all day he had scarcely
sat down to a meal.  Archie and Craig were "in clipping-time"
therefore, for there was roast duck on the table, and delightful
potatoes all steaming hot, and, as usual, the black bottle of
mountain dew, a "wee drappie" of which he tried in vain to get either
Craig or Archie to swallow.

"Oh, by-the-bye, men," said Findlayson, in the course of the
evening--that is, about twelve o'clock--"I hear bad news up the hills
way."

"Indeed," said Craig.

"Aye, lad.  You better ha'e your gun loaded.  The blacks, they say,
are out in force.  They've been killing sheep and bullocks too, and
picking the best."

"Well, I don't blame them either.  Mind, we white men began the
trouble; but, nevertheless, I'll defend my flock."

Little more was said on the subject.  But next morning another and an
uglier rumour came.  A black fellow or two had been shot, and the
tribe had sworn vengeance and held a corroboree.

"There's a cloud rising," said Findlayson.  "I hope it winna brak
o'er the district."

"I hope not, Findlayson.  Anyhow, I know the black fellows well.  I'm
not sure I won't ride over after I get back and try to get to the
bottom of the difference."

The out-station, under the immediate charge of Gentleman Craig, was
fully thirty miles more to the north and west than Findlayson's, and
on capital sheep-pasture land, being not very far from the hills--a
branch ridge that broke off from the main range, and lay almost due
east and west.

Many a splendidly-wooded glen and gully was here; but at the time of
our story these were still inhabited by blacks innumerable.  Savage,
fierce, and vindictive they were in all conscience, but surely not so
brave as we sometimes hear them spoken of, else could they have swept
the country for miles of the intruding white man.  In days gone by
they had indeed committed some appallingly-shocking massacres; but of
late years they had seemed contented to either retire before the
whites or to become their servants, and receive at their hands that
moral death--temptation to drink--which has worked such woe among
savages in every quarter of the inhabitable globe.

As Archie and his companion came upon the plain where--near the top
of the creek on a bit of table-land--Craig's "castle," as he called
it, was situated, the owner looked anxiously towards it.  At first
they could see no signs of life; but as they rode farther on, and
nearer, the shepherd himself came out to meet them, Roup, the collie,
bounding joyfully on in front, and barking in the exuberance of his
glee.

"All right and safe, shepherd?"

"All right and safe, sir," the man returned; "but the blacks have
been here to-day."


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-Squire Broadbent reads his son's letter and hands it to Rupert.
-Captain Vesey returns and tells the family about Archie and Burley New Farm in Australia.
-Archie and Craig go back to Findlayson's and are told about the rumour of war.
-The next morning, they hear that a black fellow or two has been shot, and the tribe has sworn vengeance.
-As they come upon Craig's out-station, they see no signs of life.
-But as they get closer, the shepherd comes out to meet them.
-The shepherd tells them that the blacks have been there, but all is safe.