Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
"This is no random thing," he said. "This is malicious."

"Malicious?" asked Jane. "What do you mean?"

"How many nuclear laboratories have we lost, trying to reproduce this
crystal?"

"Nine."

"And how many top-flight scientists?"

"Almost forty."

"The forty we can least afford to lose," added Dave. "Can you think of
an easier way to sap the scientific strength of a country than to give
it something that performs miracles--and also kills?"

"Ah," said Jane, shaking her head. "But there's a hole in that
reasoning. No one gave us anything. We discovered the Manhattan Crystal
by accident--in a restricted laboratory and under the most rigid
supervision."

"Accident, hell! No doubt a young and innocent mouse thinks it's
an accident when he finds a piece of cheese. The crystal is the
cheese--and the trap. Kids, we're being taken for a ride. Give 'em a
chance to lop off a gang of you and a lab at the same time and they
do it. Give them no chance to get the lab, and they'll wait to get a
scientist. Offer 'em a cluck of a newsman, of no scientific learning,
and they wait until they have a chance at an important scientist. The
crystal is still there."

"I'll go--"

"DeLieb, sit still. Claverly went, Phelps went. You go, and the next
will be Nolan or Howes."

"So what do you suggest?"

"I'm no scientist. Teach me what to do. I'll do it."

"You'll die."

"I'll prove a point," said Dave. "And I won't die! I'll prove to you
that anybody but a top scientist can tinker all day with that thing
without danger. If you think I'm wrong, remember that I was there once
and came back. Now--what do I do?"

Howes laughed bitterly. "If that were as simple as winding an alarm
clock or grinding the valves on a gas engine, we'd have no problem,
Dave."

"You can tell me the motions; you can tell me what to do. You can coach
me at the job, and with training--hell, fellers, you don't have to know
organic chemistry to mix a cake and men have performed operations with
a jackknife at sea, with directions by radio. I'm checked out in a
B-108, and any man who can keep his eyes on seventy meters, a hundred
and twelve switches, forty levers, sixty-seven pushbuttons, and drive
the damned thing with his free hand at the same time ought to be able
to learn whatever this job requires." He looked around him. "And in the
meantime, we'll let that crystal sit there and simmer, waiting for a
nice, ripe physicist to come and get stuck!"

"It will take days," said Jane thoughtfully.

"Better days than lives," said Dave sharply.

"Okay," said DeLieb. "You certainly can do no harm. You may do some
good. We'll try it your way."

For the next ninety-six hours, Dave Crandall got a total of nine hours
of sleep. He worked in another replica of the remote lab, using similar
instruments. He had not the foggiest notion of what he was doing, but
he learned the manual dexterity necessary to do it. He didn't know
what the meters meant, but he learned how to read them. He couldn't
understand why he must do thus and so when such and such a meter read
to a certain value, but he learned that, too. He became a trained human
primate, an animal who knew that four raps plus four raps equalled
eight raps; a chimpanzee trained to drive an automobile.

Not that Dave was ignorant, unintelligent, or untutored. Dave was
college, postgrad, and a writer. Dave knew as much present-day science
as any layman. He wrote science articles for his paper, was constantly
exposed to science, and a lot of it took. But this science was as far
beyond the kind he knew as the jet plane is beyond the Wright Brothers'
original model.

Then DeLieb told him, "Dave, you're ready."

"Let's go."


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is tense and suspenseful, with a hint of mystery. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is serious and dramatic.