Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
IV.

_THE KING MAY COME IN THE CADGER'S WAY._

Mr. Glorie did not put his runaway apprentice in gaol.  He simply
advertised for another--with a premium.

Poor Archie!  His condition in life was certainly not to be envied
now.  He had but very few pounds between him and actual want.

He was rich in one thing alone--pride.  He would sooner starve than
write home for a penny.  No, he could die in a gutter, but he could
not bear to think they should know of it at Burley Old Farm.

Long ago, in the bonnie woods around Burley, he used to wonder to
find dead birds in dark crannies of the rocks.  He could understand
it now.  They had crawled into the crannies to die, out of sight and
alone.

His club friends tried to rally him.  They tried to cheer him up in
more ways than one.  Be it whispered, they tried to make him seek
solace in gambling and in the wine-cup.

I do not think that I have held up my hero as a paragon.  On the
contrary, I have but represented him as he was--a bold, determined
lad, with many and many a fault; but now I am glad to say this one
thing in his favour: he was not such a fool as to try to drown his
wits in wine, nor to seek to make money questionably by betting and
by cards.

After Archie's letter home, in which he told Elsie that he was
"something in soap," he had written another, and a more cheerful one.
It was one which cost him a good deal of trouble to write; for he
really could not get over the notion that he was telling white lies
when he spoke of "his prospects in life, and his hopes being on the
ascendant;" and as he dropped it into the receiver, he felt mean,
demoralized; and he came slowly along George Street, trying to make
himself believe that any letter was better than no letter, and that
he would hardly have been justified in telling the whole truth.

Well, at Burley Old Farm things had rather improved, simply for this
reason: Squire Broadbent had gone in heavily for retrenchment.

He had proved the truth of his own statement: "It does not take much
in this world to make a man happy."  The Squire was happy when he saw
his wife and children happy.  The former was always quietly cheerful,
and the latter did all they could to keep up each other's hearts.
They spent much of their spare time in the beautiful and romantic
tower-room, and in walking about the woods, the grounds, and farm;
for Rupert was well now, and was his father's right hand, not in the
rough-and-tumble dashing way that Archie would have been, but in a
thoughtful, considering way.

Mr. Walton had gone away, but Branson and old Kate were still to the
fore.  The Squire could not have spared these.

I think that Rupert's religion was a very pretty thing.  He had lost
none of his simple faith, his abiding trust in God's goodness, though
he had regained his health.  His devotions were quite as sincere, his
thankfulness for mercies received greater even than before, and he
had the most unbounded faith in the efficacy of prayer.

So his sister and he lived in hope, and the Squire used to build
castles in the green parlour of an evening, and of course the absent
Archie was one of the kings of these castles.

After a certain number of years of retrenchment, Burley was going to
rise from its ashes hike the fabled phoenix--machinery and all.  The
Squire was even yet determined to show these old-fashioned farmer
folks of Northumbria "a thing or two."

That was his ambition; and we must not blame him; for a man without
ambition of some kind is a very humble sort of a clod--a clod of very
poor clay.

But to return to Sydney.

Archie had received several rough invitations to go and visit Mr.
Winslow.  He had accepted two of these, and, singular to say,
Etheldene's father was absent each time.  Now, I refuse to be
misunderstood.  Archie did not "manage" to call when the ex-miner was
out; but Archie was not displeased.  He had taken a very great fancy
for the child, and did not hesitate to tell her that from the first
day he had met her he had loved her like his sister Elsie.

Of course Etheldene wanted to know all about Elsie, and hours were
spent in telling her about this one darling sister of his, and about
Rupert and all the grand old life at Burley.

"I should laugh," cried Archie, "if some day when you grew up, you
should find yourself in England, and fall in love with Rupert, and
marry him."


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Archie, a young man in England, has run away from his apprenticeship and is now living in poverty. His friends try to cheer him up, but he is not interested in gambling or drinking. He writes a letter home to his family, telling them he is doing well, but he feels guilty about lying.
Back at home, things have improved slightly because the squire has gone in for retrenchment. Rupert, Archie's brother, is healthy again and helping his father on the farm. The family spends their time in the tower room or walking around the grounds.
Archie receives an invitation to visit Mr. Winslow, and he accepts. He enjoys spending time with Mr. Winslow's daughter, Etheldene, and tells her about his life back home. He jokes that she might fall in love with Rupert and marry him someday.