Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
Meanwhile the sun went down behind the dark and distant wooded hills,
that in their strange shapes almost resembled the horizon seen at sea
when the waves are high and stormy.  Between the place where Archie
and his brother stood and the light, all was rugged plain and
forest-land, but soon the whole assumed a shade of almost blackness,
and the nearest trees stood up weird and spectre-like against the
sky's strange hue.  Towards the horizon to-night there was a deep
saffron or orange fading above into a kind of pure grey or opal hue,
with over it all a light blush of red, and hurrying away to the
south, impelled by some air-current not felt below, was a mighty host
of little cloudlets of every colour, from darkest purple to
golden-red and crimson.

There was now and then the bleating of sheep--sheep without a
shepherd--and a slight tinkle-tinkle, as of a bell.  It was in
reality the voice of a strange bird, often to be found in the
neighbourhood of creeks and pools.

Hardly any other sound at present fell on the ear.  By-and-bye the
hurrying clouds got paler, and the orange left the horizon, and stars
began to twinkle in the east.

"Come out here a little way with me," said Rupert, taking Archie by
the hand.

When they had gone some little distance, quite out of hearing of the
camp, Rupert spoke:

"Do you mind kneeling down here," he said, "to pray, Archie?"

"You good old Rupert, no," was the reply.

Perhaps no more simple, earnest, or heart-felt prayer was ever
breathed under such circumstances, or in such a place.  And not only
was Rupert earnest, but he was confident.  He spoke to the great
Father as to a friend whom he had long, long known, and One whom he
could trust to do all for the best.  He prayed for protection, he
prayed for help for the speedy restoration of the stolen child, and
he even prayed for the tribe they soon hoped to meet in
conflict--prayed that the God who moves in so mysterious a way to
perform His wonders would bless the present affliction to the white
man, and even to the misguided black.

Oh, what a beautiful religion is ours--the religion of love--the
religion taught by the lips of the mild and gentle Jesus!

When they rose from their knees they once more looked skywards at the
stars, for they were brightly shining now; then hand-in-hand, as they
had come, the brothers returned to the camp.

No log-fire was lit to-night.  The men just lay down to sleep rolled
in their blankets, with their arms close by their saddle pillows, two
being told off to walk sentry in case of a sudden surprise.

Even the horses were put in an enclosure, lest they might roam too
far away.

About twelve o'clock Archie awoke from an uneasy dreamful slumber,
and looked about him.  His attention was speedily attracted to what
seemed a huge fire blazing luridly behind the hills, and lighting up
the haze above with its gleams.  Was the forest on fire again?  No;
it was only moonrise over the woods.  Ha awakened Craig, and soon the
little camp was all astir and ready for the road.  Jacoby was to act
as guide.  No Indian from the Wild West of America could be a better
tracker.

But even before he started he told Craig the task would be an easy
one, for the black fellows had drunk plenty, and had taken plenty rum
with them.  They would not go far, he thought, and there was a
probability that they would meet some of the band returning.  Even in
the moonlight Jacoby followed the trail easily and rapidly.

It took them first straight for the forest that had been burned
recently--a thoughtless deed on the part of the whites, that probably
led to all this sad trouble.

There was evidence here that the blacks had gone into camp on the
very night of the massacre, and had held a corroboree, which could
only have been a day or two ago.  There were the remains of the camp
fires and the trampled ground and broken branches, with no attempt at
concealment.  There was a chance that even now they might not be far
away, and that the little band might come up with them ere they had
started for the day.  But if they ventured to hope so, they were
doomed to disappointment.

Morning broke at last lazily over the woods, and with but a brief
interval they followed up the trail, and so on and on all that day,
till far into the afternoon, when for a brief moment only Jacoby
found himself puzzled, having fallen in with another trail leading
south and west from the main track.  He soon, however, discovered
that the new trail must be that of some band who had joined the
Findlayson farm raiders.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

-Archie: one of the main characters, a young boy
-Rupert: Archie's older brother, also a main character
-Archie's father: not present in the scene, but mentioned
-the stolen child: also not present, but the subject of Rupert's prayer
-the tribe they soon hope to meet in conflict: the Native Americans who raided the farm