What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
EPILOGUE


"My story is told," said Vignerte.

He lapsed into silence and I respected his feelings. Then, little by
little, we both felt our thoughts wandering from the tragedy he had just
conjured up and concentrate on that other drama that was about to be
unfolded before our eyes.

It was a quarter to six. It was not yet light, though we felt that day
was at hand. The four runners, one for each section, had silently come
up behind.

Six o'clock!... The hour fixed for the attack. A minute passed, a minute
that seemed an eternity. Then the distant sound of a whistle reached our
ears. The 22nd were leaving their trenches.

There was about three hundred yards between their trenches and the horn
of the wood which our comrades were to clear. To cross a space of three
hundred yards, mainly on your stomach, requires a good quarter of an
hour.

The night was cold, but light clouds, already turning to burnished gold
in the grey eastern sky, promised a fine day. You can't imagine what a
tragic moment those minutes of breathless expectation are. And yet none
of those who have come back from the dreadful experience ever regret
having known it.

Suddenly a sharp shot rang out at the bottom of the valley. Then two,
three.... A German post had given the alarm, but too late, judging by
the time that had elapsed. Our men must have been on them.

Then to our right volleys crashed out, like a sheet of metal being
ripped in two. It was the 23rd Company, whose orders were to maintain a
steady fire on the Germans opposite with a view to holding them down and
preventing them from helping their comrades in distress.

Now the whole hostile line replied with nervous bursts which augured
well for us. Their shooting was bad and their bullets flew high above
our heads. Now and then a snapped twig fell beside us, like a leaf
fluttering to earth. Any one who has done any fighting in wooded country
knows what I mean.

The din had lasted about five minutes when, on our right, an enormous
flame shot up into the sky, illuminating all the heights opposite, and
then dying out in a shower of debris. At the same moment there was the
deafening roar of a terrific explosion.

"That's what we wanted," I murmured to Vignerte. "There was a mine
there, and they've fired it."

On our own bit of front the firing had begun again with redoubled
vigour. Then there was a sudden silence. A rocket went up from our
lines.

That rocket told our artillery that the 22nd had just got safely back to
its trenches and that its turn had now arrived. The barrage opened
immediately.

We could now hear the invisible monsters coming from behind, describing
their deadly curves above our heads. That roar gets louder and louder
and yet seems so slow, so terribly slow, that you can never explain how
it is you cannot see one of these birds that make such a tremendous
noise.

And then comes the end of the journey in the enemy's trenches, the blue
and red flame, the earth and debris flying heavenwards in a sulphur
column, the ear-splitting crash of the explosion.

Vignerte and I watched the effects of the bombardment through our
glasses.

All at once I heard some one calling me.

It was the runner between us and battalion headquarters. He came up, out
of breath with running.

"Sir! Sir!"

"What is it?"

"The Commandant wants you at once at his headquarters."

"I'm off," I said to Vignerte. "What news have you at your end?" I asked
the man. "Do you know if the raid of the 22nd succeeded?"

"Splendidly, sir. They only lost two men. They have blown up a mine,
destroyed the trench and brought back nearly forty prisoners. Very good
work, sir. But please come quickly. The Commandant is in a hurry."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to provide an overview of the events that have transpired and to set up the climax of the story. The author achieves this by having the character Vignerte recount the events leading up to the climax, and by having a runner come to tell the protagonist that he is needed at the commandant's headquarters.