Write a brief description of all characters in this scene.


SCENE:
[Illustration: "MADAM," SAID HE, "I CRAVE YOUR PARDON FOR THIS
SEEMING INCIVILITY."]

"Madam," said he, "I crave your pardon for this seeming incivility;
but I am new come to Inverness, and am quartered here until
to-morrow."

(Not so new-come thought Rob, mindful of Fraser's tavern.)

All the time the stranger's alert blue eyes were speeding hither and
thither about the room.  They paused for a moment on the rope in the
master's hands, took in Rob at a glance (but with no appearance of
recognition which grieved him), and then returned to Miss Macpherson,
who had never acknowledged his presence by word or nod.

"Sir," said Rob to the stranger, "Mr. Macaulay was even now enquiring
for you."

"Thank ye," he replied, "but I have already seen the rope in his
hands.  Maybe it could be used for a better purpose..."

Mr. Macaulay was as near to the door as the stranger.  With a bound
he reached it, and flung it back.  And then with another swirl of air
he was gone into the night.

The stranger watched his departure with upraised brows and a smile
upon his lips, then he stepped to the door and closed it, bolting it
with careful hands.

"For the present," said he, turning to Rob, "he's gone: You are not
afraid of my company, are you?"

He grasped him gently by each shoulder as he spoke, and looked into
his eyes.

Rob shook his head.  Afraid of the man of the moor!  He was suddenly
overtaken by a curious shyness of this mysterious man with his
shrewd, inscrutable blue eyes, his great Highland nose, the whimsical
twist that lurked at the corners of his mouth, and his massive head
far up near the rafters through the vast height of him.

His clothes had a foreign cut, and he betrayed the inflection of a
strange accent underlying his words accompanied by occasional
gestures of the hands that strike a northerner as affected and
womanly.  His voice was very deep and soft and so persuasive that few
could withstand him.  Even in anger it was never harsh--but some said
he never permitted himself to grow angry and for that very reason
always won his own way.  Even Miss Macpherson only angered him once.

Meanwhile the stranger was eyeing them both with droll intentness.
If only the honest can meet another's gaze without flinching then he
must have been a very honest man indeed, for there were few he could
not stare down, and what is more take a relish in so doing.

"How are you named?" he asked, still grasping the boy by the shoulder.

"My name is Rob Fraser," he replied, "and this is my aunt, Miss
Macpherson."

"Then I am in good company," he said, and letting go of Rob began to
warm his hands at the fire, turning them backwards and forwards to
the blaze.  "It is good," he mused after a while, "to have peat reek
in one's nostrils once again.  What a bonny room this is.  There are
few pans like those in Inverness I'll warrant.  I would like fine to
taste a bannock of your cooking, Miss Macpherson.  I know a good
bannock when I see it, and it's long since I've had a taste of old
Scotland..." at which he sighed and stared upon the ground.

Somewhat mollified, despite herself, Miss Macpherson set the table
again, and busied herself amongst her household utensils.  Over the
peat fire a pot was swinging on a chain from a cross beam above.  The
place was full of the rare smell of it.  But the stranger said
nothing, though he must have been eying out for a basinful.  Instead
he drew Rob to the fire, and spoke to him in his low musical voice,
sitting upon a stool with his great coat hung up upon a peg beside
him and the steam rising from it and losing itself in the blueness of
the peat reek.

"I saw ye the day," he said.  "It was just after our forces, heaven
help them, had passed.  I canna bear to look at them.  I feel like a
man watching a procession of bairns and dying men..."

"Have you been in another war?" asked Rob.

"War," said he, "this is not war.  Man Rob, I've served all over
Europe and seen the armies of Frederick advance like the thunder of
surf on a western isle.  I have seen service in Poland, Austria, and
the Netherlands.  I have fought under Saxe."

He paused and seemed to draw some pleasure from Rob's flushed face
and eager eyes.


BRIEF CHARACTER DESCRIPTIONS:

==========

- Mr. Macaulay: near the door, looking at the rope in the master's hands
- The stranger: blue eyes, alert, upraised brows, smile on lips, foreign cut to clothes, deep voice, persuasive, droll
- Rob Fraser: shy, curious
- Miss Macpherson: angry