Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
The chilly breeze of dawn fanned my temples. My emotions now began to
overwhelm me. Indeed, at that moment I had not even a thought for her
for whom I would have sacrificed everything, the woman I was about to
leave for ever. I gazed before me at the little hills, which now began
to emerge, one by one, out of the yielding darkness. The amazing
originality of the manner of my return was forgotten, and I was
possessed by another sentiment, far stronger and more poignant.

I was wholly under its influence when the car stopped so suddenly as
almost to throw me on to the wind-screen. Without a word the Grand
Duchess pointed to a frontier post ten paces away on the right of the
road.

The spectacle of that six-foot post, one side white and black, the other
blue, white and red, was extraordinarily moving.

I looked at the Grand Duchess and a great joy filled me as I saw the
emotion in her set face.

It was not yet quite light. The car was now going very slowly. It was as
if Aurora wanted me to notice the little night flowers which trembled in
the wind on the sides of the banks.

Suddenly I caught hold of my companion's arm. The car stopped. Less than
two hundred yards away, at the top of a hill above the road, a
motionless horseman had just appeared, a dark silhouette against the
sky.

It was a French dragoon. We could see the buff cover of his helmet and
the red and white pennon on his lance. Then two more appeared, then ten,
then twenty, and they came forward at a canter to meet us.

"It is your turn to do the talking this time," said Aurora, with a
smile.

An officer came first. He was a tall young man, dark and rather pale.
His chin-strap drew a shining line across his black moustache. He
saluted us with his sabre and asked to see our permits.

"I must confess, monsieur," replied the Grand Duchess, "that I do not
possess anything of the kind, for I don't suppose you will be satisfied
with this which was given me by the German general in command at
Thionville," she said, showing von Offenburg's permit.

The young officer assumed an expression denoting that the occasion was
hardly suitable for trifling.

"Monsieur," continued Aurora, when she had satisfied herself at a glance
that for the moment I was completely unable to say a word, "there are
some things it would take too long to explain from a car to a horse in
the middle of the road. These are the facts. I am the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg-Detmold. Monsieur Vignerte, my companion, is a French
officer, a lieutenant like yourself. I don't know whether in France you
have already taken the precaution of arresting Germans. But in Germany
we have been arresting Frenchmen since yesterday. This gentleman was
about to be arrested; I have brought him to you. That is all."

And, moved apparently by the look of amazement which had spread over the
dragoon's face, she added:

"I should, perhaps, say, monsieur, that I am Russian by birth, so you
need no longer doubt either myself or my immediate purpose."

The officer had dismounted. He bowed respectfully to Aurora, who had,
like myself, just stepped out of the car.

"Lieutenant de Coigny, 11th Dragoons, of Longwy," he said.

I introduced myself. We shook hands.

"You have come a long way, comrade. What shall we do with you?"

"You have a spare horse to lend him?" said the Grand Duchess. "Now, if I
may offer a little advice, take him at once to your civil or military
authorities. He has come straight from Germany, and knows much that may
be valuable to this country, where the flowers are lovely, but which is
never sufficiently on its guard, I think."

As she spoke she was looking at some wild roses hanging over the edge of
the bank. Lieutenant de Coigny plundered the thickest tufts and
collected a pink bunch which he handed to the Grand Duchess.

"Thank you, monsieur," she said, with a charming smile to the young man,
who was under the spell of her wondrous beauty. "Would you be good
enough to make your horses stand aside? The road is narrow, and I must
turn my car."

Then I utterly broke down.

Gone were my indifference of the night, my sudden emotion on entering
France once more. They were things of the past. One thought alone
obsessed me: in a quarter of an hour I should have lost her for ever.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very formal and polite. The tone is one of sadness and regret, mixed with a sense of joy and excitement. The point of view is third person limited.