What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
BASSETT on the wharf in the cove watched the launch approaching over
the glistening floor of water. As it grated against the boards he heard
his name in a deep-throated bass voice and the big body of the sheriff
climbed over the side. A rough padded hand grasped his, and Well, Mr.
Bassett, the laws got us together again, was growled into his ear.

Two more figures followed him. One was Rawson, the district-attorney,
whom the vivid light revealed as a man much younger than Williams,
tall and narrow-shouldered, with a lean New England visage and a pair
of horn spectacles astride a high-bridged nose. The other was disposed
of with a casual hand-wave and a murmur of Patrick, brought, it was
explained, to take charge of the causeway. Rawson, it appeared, knew
Gull Island well, having been there several times on legal business
for Mr. Driscoll.

As they walked back Bassett told his story. He noticed that the younger
mans questions were sharp and to the point and before they had gone
half-way realized that Rawson was of a much higher grade of education
and intelligence than his coadjutor. A smart chap, he thought, and felt
his burden lightened--they could do good teamwork. Stopping by the edge
of the pine wood he pointed out the scene of the shooting and was again
struck by the mans quick comprehension.

Moving on, Williams observed with grim relish:

You couldnt have a murder committed in a better place than
this--better for us. Once youre on here its a damned hard business
getting off. These folks are as good as in prison. Now, Mr. Bassett,
just where does that causeway lie?

The channel stretched before them, a shining expanse, ripple-creased,
summits of rock emerging. The receding water was like a silver veil
being slowly withdrawn, its delicate tissue torn by sharp-edged
projections. Bassett pointed beyond the wharf:

There! Below the water there are steps cut in the rock that lead down
to it. It goes straight across to a breakwater and landing outside the
village, a bank and a belt of trees above. The whole stretch wont be
clear till nearly midnight.

Williams gave his instructions to the man Patrick--a watch on the
causeway, any one stopped who came from the mainland or attempted to
leave the island. Patrick, a silent massive countryman, with a stolid
bull-dog face, thrust out his chin and nodded. He slouched off, the
sound of his heavy boots loud on the rocks. The others turned toward
the house, the light from its opened door falling outward in a long
golden square.

The occupants of the room heard them and looked at one another. Mrs.
Cornell, with clenched hands, slowly stood up, and the rest, like
people in church who see a figure rise and simultaneously follow its
example, got to their feet. They stood by their chairs, motionless, all
facing the same way. It was like an ensemble scene in a theater.

The three men entered and under the shadow of the gallery paused for a
moment surveying the standing figures much as they might have looked at
some spectacle arranged for their approval. William was surprised at
their number and their line ranged like a battle front. Rawsons sharp
eye ran over the faces, mentally ticketing them, and Bassett, with no
precedent to guide him, walked toward his associates and announced:

Ladies and gentlemen, the authorities have come. Mr. Rawson and Mr.
Williams.

They bowed and then not knowing what to do next, subsided into their
seats. The men came forward, moving to the long table where Williams
sat down, fumbling in his pocket for a fountain pen and paper and
clearing a space for the taking of notes. Rawson, surveying the seated
assemblage, said:

This is the whole of your company, Mr. Bassett?

All who were here at the time of the murder. Several of the actors and
assistants left at five-thirty and Joe Tracy, one of the company at a
quarter to seven.

You saw them go?

I saw the first lot go. I didnt see Tracy. But, he looked at Anne,
this is his sister, Miss Tracy. She probably did.

Did you, Miss Tracy? said Rawson.

Her voice was very low but steady and clear:

Yes, he went.

Well, that disposes of them, said Rawson, and drawing up a chair, sat
down facing the line of solemn people.


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to introduce the characters of the sheriff and the district attorney, and to establish the setting of the story. The author achieves these goals by having the characters discuss the murder case and the location of the crime.