Write a detailed synopsis of the following scene:


SCENE:
XXVII
A LEGAL DOCUMENT IS RECEIVED


He will be here to-day! Surely, Horace will be here to-day, Nellie
Wylie repeated to herself as the hours crept slowly on and the time
arrived when, by her reckoning, her husband should have reached C.

Mark had driven out to meet him, and the little woman scanned again and
again the broad bosom of the plain for a sight of the returning
carriage. The grass was dry and golden in the sunlight and her eyes
ached from the reflected brightness as, shading them with her hand, she
stood for the fiftieth time before the cabin door and sought to trace
the slender thread of roadway.

Alice, I am sure there is some one coming, she cried at last, as a
brown speck became visible against the horizon. Alice came and looked
over her shoulder.

It is only Jackson, the mail-carrier, I am afraid, Alice replied. You
know, dearie, Mark would be detained for a little time, while Jackson
has hastened directly here. You must not look too much upon Horaces
coming to-night, for the train may have been delayed or many things may
have happened to detain him.

The letter-box was fastened at the roadside nearly opposite Marks
house, but seeing Alice in the doorway, Jackson threw his package of
mail to her and galloped on to the next post.

Here is a letter for you, dear, said Alice as she sorted out the mail
and came slowly up to the waiting sister.

A letter? And from Horace, too! He must have written before he
started. And her bright eyes glanced eagerly over the sheet she had
hurriedly opened. Oh, merciful Heaven!

The cry startled Alice, and she turned to see Elinor stagger as if
stricken by a blow and then sink in a limp and helpless heap upon the
ground.

Why, Elinor! Nellie! What is it? cried Alice, running to her and
lifting the poor fallen head in her arms. My poor Nellie! Is it bad
news? Tell me! she implored, while she rubbed the pulseless wrists and
tried to arouse her to consciousness.

Mamma, mamma! cried little Robbie, frantic with alarm, trying to open
her eyes with his little brown fingers. Mamma! Is she dead?

No, Robbie, not dead. Oh, my child! cried Alice; if Mark would only
come!

Uncle Mark is coming, cried Robbie, and Alice lifted her head with a
silent prayer of thanksgiving as she heard the sound of horses
footsteps over the soft earth.

How glad I am youve come! she sobbed, as a few moments later he
reached her side. What can have happened to poor Nellie? Some dreadful
news, Im afraid.

Mark lifted the letter, which still remained in her nerveless fingers.
An enclosure fell from it to the ground. He picked it up and hastily
looked it over. It was evidently a legal document, and as he read the
first line his face grew pale with surprise and anger.

Great Scott! What is this! Oh, my poor little girl! And the
great-hearted Mark Cramer turned away his head and groaned aloud. He
turned to see Elinor staring at him with rigid eyes, full of wonder.

What has happened, MarkAlice? Oh, I know, I know! and again the blue
eyes were covered with the heavy eyelids. Then Mark lifted her in his
arms, and bearing her as lightly as though she were a child, he carried
her into the cabin and laid her upon a couch.

Poor child, poor child! he muttered. It is her only chance of
forgetfulness. It would be better almost if she never wakened.

Mark Cramer, will you tell me what has happened? cried Alice, who had
followed him in and now stood holding Robbies hand, her eyes dilated
and expectant. Mark hesitated, but finally said through closed teeth:

That paper is a copy of a bill of divorcement from Nellie.

A divorce? I dont understand! Alice caught her breath.

Yes, that knave of a Wylie has divorced this poor girl! God only knows
for what or why he has done so. But, by the eternal powers, Ill know
why! That man shall answer to me for this! Marks eyes blazed.

Hush, Mark! You are excited and know not what you are saying. There
must be some mistake. It is probably only a joke. He has written Elinor
every day, kind, affectionate letters, and I think he was to have come
to-day, may be here in a few hours. He is only playing a practical joke
upon her.


DETAILED SYNOPSIS:

==========

Alice and Elinor are waiting for Elinor's husband, Horace, to return home. They see a man on horseback coming towards them and assume it is Horace, but it is only the mailman. He gives Alice a letter for Elinor, which she eagerly opens. However, upon reading it, Elinor faints. Mark, Elinor's brother, arrives and sees that the letter is a divorce document. He is outraged and vows to get revenge on Horace. Alice tries to calm him down, telling him that maybe it is just a practical joke.