Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
"What was that?" gasped one of the soldiers in a trembling voice.

They all turned about and listened.

"I thought I heard a tune far away," he whispered, shaking with
fright.

"Tuts," said the officer, but none too happily, "it was nothing.  But
the tune that the banshee plays is a queer twisted tune, and once ye
hear it there's no getting away--what was that?  I'll swear I heard
something."

This from the little officer himself set all aquiver with agitation.
Some one tried to throw some more wood on the fire and found there
was none, while the two nearest to the open space in the wall drew so
close to their comrades that they were hunched up together like
cattle in a drove.

Rob crouched under the shadow of the wall overcome with a kindred
fear.  Forgotten was Muckle John--forgotten was his impending
fate--there only remained the dreaded banshee and the far away
haunting echo of a tune, and the strangeness of the place they were
in.

"Come, come," said the officer with some attempt at soothing them,
"it's queer the way the courage goes in these forlorn places.  As I
was saying I lay watching the great tombstone that the moonlight
rested upon, when I heard a bit ripple of music that fairly made the
flesh creep on my bones and my hair stand up quite crisp and
prickling.  And will ye believe me the stone of the tomb began to
rise..."

"Listen!" screamed Rob.

His shrill warning acted on them like an electric shock.  They
scrambled to their feet in a perfect paroxysm of terror.  And then
far away like a ghostly measure sounded a lilting, ghastly melody.
Ghastly it sounded in that dim place with only the sullen red light
upon the broken, haunted walls--ghastly just because it was a
trifling mocking catch of tune played in a grim and heartless manner.

But more was to come.

"Let us get out of here," groaned one of the Englishmen in a hoarse
voice, but he spoke too late.

For before their starting eyes the top of the massive tomb began to
lift--lift--lift, and the tune to grow clearer coming ever nearer
like a man marching slowly into their midst.

Then there was such a scene as that lonely moor had never seen before
and will never see again.  For with one united howl of terror they
rushed together for the door.  And first of them all was the little
officer.  Into the silent night they tore, tripping, falling, never
daring to look back, but set on reaching Fort Augustus in the
swiftest possible manner.

Only once did the little officer pause, having fallen head-first into
a bog, and as he scrambled out he heard (or says he heard) the thing
at his very heels floating ten feet from the ground and playing as it
came.

Rob, unable to fly, was forced to a bravery he did not relish.  And
so with tightly closed eyes and his head buried under a tuft of grass
he prepared for the end.  Look at that dreadful sight again he would
not.  He heard the mad tumult of the flying soldiers--he caught a
loud bang like a heavy door clanging to--he listened with trembling
limbs to the ghostly melody dying upon the moor.

And then back again he caught the sound of footsteps, and he knew
that the banshee was come to eat him at its leisure.

It was groping across the floor towards him.  Now it was touching
him.  Its hands were as cold as the little officer had said.

"Rob!" said Muckle John, shaking him.

He uttered a muffled cry partly because of his mouth being so stuffed
with grass, partly through the shock of it all, but mostly because it
was all so unexpected.

Muckle John said nothing but cut him free, and taking the strips of
rope threw them on the fire.

"Should they ever come back, which will only be by day if at all," he
said, "they will know that it ate ye up every scrap.  But I'm
doubting if they will.  Let us make up the fire, Rob, and take our
sleep, for there'll be few meddling us awhile."

"But how could you do it, Muckle John?"


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

-The soldiers are in a panic, running from the banshee
-Rob is left behind, hiding in terror
-Muckle John comes back for him and they make up the fire
-Muckle John tells Rob how he scared the soldiers away