Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
If there be such in these woods, then such there be, announced
Teddy Manley, and punctuated this cryptic utterance with a slight
grunt as he bent over the marks in the soft earth.

No doubt, no doubt, his brother, Roy, declared dryly. Speak the
mother tongue, Teddy. What are you staring at, anyhow?

Take a look for yourself, Teddy answered briefly, and stepped
aside. Roy moved closer, gazed curiously at the impressions on the
ground, then gave a low whistle.

Bear tracks! he exclaimed excitedly. Bear tracks, or Im a shad!

You remain as originally intended, remarked Teddy. Those are
definite, certain, and never-to-be-doubted bear tracks. Now the
burning question is-- he hitched up his belt and turned his head
from side to side. Whar am Mister Bar?

Roy hunched his shoulders in a gesture expressing entire ignorance
of the subject. The tracks were fairly fresh, but their maker could
be many miles away by this time.

It was early fall, and the two brothers had started out from the X
Bar X Ranch, with the intention of bagging some small game. Teddy
carried a light shotgun, hoping to get a chance at duck. Roy had
brought with him a small-bore rifle. Hardly the weapons with which
to hunt bear.

The boys had picketed their ponies near the foot of the mountain,
knowing that the steep grade above made riding impractical. Thus far
they had not sighted any game worth considering, but now, when they
were near the top, Teddy had come upon the bear tracks.

Do we follow them? Teddy, the younger, asked dubiously. He glanced
down at the gun held in the crook of his arm. This shotgun I have
would only take his picture, Roy, and that pea-shooter of yours
isnt much better. Whats the verdict?

Roy looked at his brother and smiled.

Trying to kid me? After looking for bears in these woods for years,
when we raise one, you want to know things! Huh! Dont ask! Look me
straight in the eye, brother mine, and say: What would you rather
do, or hunt bear?

Youre the doctor, Teddy responded. You must be getting reckless
in your old age, Roy. This last was to nail any idea that Teddy
hesitated to face the adventure. He was slightly chagrined at the
fact that Roy had taken the initiative in suggesting that they
proceed. Usually it was the other way around, the younger lad
proposing, and Roy, with what he was pleased to call his more
mature judgment, disposing.

Far be it from me to dissuade you from entering the lists against a
baby bear, Teddy went on. I hope you see him before he sees you.
Those animals are easily scared.

Yes, Teddy, my lad, Roy said with a maddening grin. We shall not
argue the issue. Come on--lets go.

Grumbling half-heartedly to himself, Teddy Manley followed the
tracks. As he proceeded, the injustice that had been done him was
forgotten in the mounting excitement of the chase. The tracks led
diagonally across the mountain, and seemed to get fresher with every
yard. As the boys came to a clearing, Teddy halted.

Not long since he passed here! he exclaimed, as he noticed an ant
heap that had been disturbed by the animal. Look--those ants are
still half crazy with fright--running around every which way.

It was not by accident that Teddys eyes caught this telltale bit of
evidence. Born and brought up in the West, these boys could
interpret the signs of the forest with unerring judgment. Where
another might see merely a broken twig, the young ranchers read a
story.

Hes close, Roy returned laconically. He looked to his rifle. The
magazine was full, and he pumped a bullet into the chamber. If they
did come upon the bear, by great good luck Roy might succeed in
placing a shot through the eye into the brain, which was the only
place where the small bullet would be effective. If he missed--well,
several things might happen, and not all of them to the bear.

Teddy gazed intently toward a clump of sage brush just off the
trail. Absently he bent his left knee, and with his hand he
dislodged a piece of dirt that had caught on the heel of his shoe.
This he tossed into the bush carelessly.

There was a sudden deep-throated growl. The bushes stirred, then
parted. Framed in a circlet of brown sage brush, appeared the shaggy
head of a huge black bear.


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The literary style of this scene is tense and suspenseful. The point of view is third person limited, and the tone is one of excitement and danger.