Describe the literary style of this scene. For example: tone, POV, and so on.


SCENE:
Swirled in the maze of a slow awakening, dropped through an abyss from
zenith to nadir, the prisoner came out of his dreams and stared through
the bars of his door to the pearl gray of the coming dawn.

C-45better known in international underworld circles as Chester Fay,
alias Edward Letchmerewas serving ten years at hard labor for the
crime, committed against the peace and dignity of the country, of
openingby means unguessed by Scotland Yarda jewelers strong-box in
Hatton Gardens; which is, aside from The Old Lady of Threadneedle
Street, the strictest patrolled district in the city of London.

Chester Fay, alias Edward Letchmere, studied the crack of dawn as it
crept over the man-made barricade, through the slotted windows of the
great gray cell block, and bathed the harsh walls of the prison with the
rosy light of pearl changed into ruby and from ruby into gold.

And there was something prophetic in the mellow magic of the chromatic
changes in the English sky!

A bell clanged at the front of the prison. A key grated in a lock. An
iron door opened. Shuffling feet sounded, like an old womans in a lane.
C-45 lowered the edge of his shoddy blanketstamped here and there with
the broad arrowand watched where the grated bars of the door formed
tiny crosses against the dull gray of the wall.

The shuffling came nearer the cell. It stopped. A key clicked against
another. The footfalls were resumed. A surly beef-and-beer face blotted
out the light from the corridor as Chester Fay raised himself upon his
hinged shelf.

C-45? inquired the turnkey.

Yes, breathed Fay.

The aged turnkey squinted at the paper he held in trembling fingers. He
eyed the door number and blinked his matted lashes.

C-45, he said, get your clothes on. Yre going hout!

Had the slaty roof of the stony coffin, which he had learned to call
home, fallen down upon him, Fay would not have been more surprised. He
twisted his lithe body, touched his bare toes to the cold stones of the
flagging, and stood erect, the heart within his breast throbbing like an
imprisoned bird.

The red, peering face beyond the bars, the tiny rimmed eyes with their
matted lashes, the thick purple lips, the bulbous nose of the turnkey,
represented British justice carried to the furthermost limit of caution
and concern for His Majestys prisoners.

Fay had hated this guard over the five years at Dartmoor as he had hated
the gruel and molasses served in the morning, the stew at noon, or the
gummy oakum piled in the cell to be picked strand by strand in an
unending drudgery.

Now this screw, so called by the inmates of Dartmoor, had delivered
the sweetest words ever dropped into human ears. Fay never knew how he
dressed on that morning. It was done. He waited and pressed his slender
body against the latticed bars, with his ears straining to catch the
iron music of the thrown bolt.

The great key turned. The door swung open. Fay glided out from his cell
and stood at attention with his fingers touching against the seams of
his dirt-gray prison trousers.

The guard locked the door. He peered at the paper he held. He squinted
at the number upon the stone over the doorway, then he motioned Fay to
follow him up the long corridor of the white-flagged cell block.

The prisoner followed the burly form of his keeper. He threw back his
keen-cut face while his eyes lighted with a sanguine fire that burned
clear through the gloom to the iron door of liberty.

This door swung open after a signal was passed between guard and keeper.
Prisoners pressed white faces to the many bars of the place. A whisper
ran from cell to cell. The American was going free! They watched Fay as
he passed through the arch and sank back into their narrow coffins as
the great door clanged.

Fay waited, breathed silently, compressed his lips, then followed the
guard along a narrow hallway and into an open court, whose one
high-barred gate was flanked by two castellated towers upon which
sentries stood with rifles swung under their arms.

MacKeenon, of Scotland Yard, stood in the very center of the courtyard.
At the inspectors feet a yellow kit-bag rested. Over the Scots right
arm a plaid overcoat hung. Within the detectives light-blue eyes there
sparkled the dry twinkle of recognition.

Chester Fay moistened his lips with the tip of his tongue. He hesitated,
then advanced step by step. He had last seen Inspector MacKeenon on the
witness dais of the September Assizes. It was the Scots testimony
concerning a certain finger-print which had carried the staid British
jury. Such a trifle!


DESCRIPTION OF LITERARY STYLE:

==========

The style of this scene is very matter-of-fact and straightforward. There is no hint of emotion or feeling, and the events are related in a simple, chronological fashion. This makes the scene seem almost like a report or a recounting of events, rather than a piece of fiction.