Write a brief outline of the following scene.


SCENE:
Alice, Alice! a voice called in her ear. Alice, where are you? All in
the dark by yourself? Then, as the visitor nearly stumbled over the
heap upon the floor, he started back involuntarily. Great Heavens! What
has happened? What is the matter? Alice, can this be you upon the floor?
Why, child, what has happened? Did I startle you by coming sooner than
you expected?

Mark Cramer, with anxious countenance, bent over the cowering figure of
his wife.

Her face was still buried in her hands, her frame shaking, her whole
attitude one of extreme fear.

Marks heart sank with a fear of unknown dangers. This was a strange
welcome after his long absence.

Alices letter had, it is true, prepared him to find her ill, perhaps
only depressed, for he had noted the dejection of spirits in the written
words, but he could account for that; but could this shrinking, cowering
creature be his formerly light-hearted and happy wife? Surely he had
expected nothing like this.

Nothing less than a serious nerve shock could have caused this
condition. From what source could the shock have come? Could it be,
Alice had brooded in her cabin until she had become insane? These and a
hundred other thoughts rushed through his brain in the space of a moment
as he bent over the abject form of his wife.

Alice, dear Alice, have you no welcome for me after all these long
months?

Mark tried to raise her, but she shrank back from him, limp and
helpless, yet trembling as with palsy.

Alice, do you know me? Have you lost your mind? My God, what a
home-coming is this! You surely are not afraid of _me_, Mark? Speak to
me, Alice.

She looked up at him with dazed eyes and tried to speak, but her lips
would not obey her will.

Alice, O Alice! Mark lifted the trembling figure in his arms and held
her tightly. Alice Cramer, do you not know me? What has happened to put
you in this state?

She turned her white face against his shoulder, hiding it.

Darker thoughts took possession of the man. Was there a reason why his
wife should fear him, her husband? His blood grew hot with anger. Had
that villain, Russell, so poisoned her mind that she feared his return,
or had some person, just previous to his return, frightened and
prostrated her? He glanced into the adjoining room and listened for any
noise to denote an intruder. No, Alice was alone.

Alice, speak to me! he commanded sternly.

Mark, Mark, she murmured. Oh! has it gone? Can you save me from it?
And again she shrank fearingly against his arm.

There is nothing here, Alice; only I, Mark. What has disturbed you so?
Was any one here before I came? Has any one been trying to frighten
you?

Alice raised her head and looked shrinkingly behind her, clinging closer
to her husband as she did so. Then she began to sob, and clutch his
shoulders tightly.

YesohI do not know! I saw it behind me here in the room. It was so
hideousso dreadful! I saw it over my shoulder there!

I think, my dear, it was only the shadow cast by my horse as it came
down the road.

Oh, no, no, it was there!

Mark looked distressed.

Alice, I shall not dare leave you alone again while your nerves are in
this state. Do you know that there has been nothing here but spectres of
your excited imagination. Since when have you conjured gruesome
hobgoblins out of the darkness? You never saw such things before, did
you?

Alice hid her face in his bosom.

Yes, Mark, many times. They are always about me. When I walk they come
up behind me and I hear their padding footsteps following me. They even
pull my hair sometimes at night when I cannot sleep. Oh, I cannot bear
it!


BRIEF OUTLINE:

==========

Alice's husband Mark returns from a long absence to find her cowering in fear on the floor. She is terrified of something, but can't or won't say what it is. Mark tries to comfort her and finds out that she's been seeing and hearing things that aren't there for some time. He realizes she's suffering from a serious nerve shock and decides he won't leave her alone again until she's better.