What is the narrative purpose of the following scene? What goals does the author achieve?


SCENE:
XXI

WORK FOR ALL


The skipper looked rather queerly at the two excited girls, but he went
below with them without further objection. In fact, Skipper Pandrick
was a man of very few words: he proved this when Nell opened the
stateroom door and he saw the smoke swirling about the apartment.

"I reckon you girls ain't been smoking in here," he said grimly. "Then
I reckon that smoke comes from below."

"Is the ship really on fire?" gasped Jessie.

"Something's afire, sure as you're a foot high," said the skipper
vigorously, and stormed out of the stateroom and out of the cabin.

There was a hatch in the main deck amidships. He called two of the men
and had it raised. The passengers as yet had no idea that anything was
wrong, for Jessie and Nell kept away from them.

But they watched what the skipper did. He had brought an electric
pocket torch from below and he flashed this before him as he descended
the iron ladder into the hold. Almost at once, however, a whiff of
smoke rose through the open hatchway.

"Glory be, Tom!" said one sailor to his mate. "What do you make of
that?"

"You can't make nothing of smoke, _but_ smoke," returned the other man.
"It's just as useless as a pig's squeal is to the butcher."

But Jessie believed that the incident called for no humor. If there was
a fire below----

"Hi, you boys!" came the muffled voice of Skipper Pandrick from below,
"couple on the pump-line and send the nozzle end below. There's
something here, sure enough."

As he said this another balloon of smoke floated up through the open
hatch. It was seen from the station of the passengers. Darry jumped up
and ran to the hatchway.

"What's he doing? Smoking down there?" he demanded.

"It's sure a bad cigar, boss, if he's smoking it," said one of the men,
grinning.

"Oh, Darryl" gasped Jessie. "The yacht is on fire!"

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the young man, rather impolitely it must be
confessed.

He started to descend into the hold. The skipper's voice rose out of it:

"Get away from there! This ain't any place for you, Mr. Darry. Hustle
that pipe-line."

"Is it serious, Skipper?" demanded the young collegian, anxiously.

"I don't know how bad it is yet. Tell the helmsman to head nor'east.
Maybe we'd better make for some anchorage, after all."

Darry ran to the wheelhouse. The other passengers began to get excited.
Nell ran to her father and told him what she had first discovered.

"Well, having discovered the fire in time, undoubtedly they will be
able to put it out," said Dr. Stanley, comfortingly.

But this did not prove to be easy. Skipper Pandrick had to come up
after a while for a breath of cool air and to remove his oilskins.
Darry and Burd got into overalls and helped in handling the hose. The
steam needed to work the pump, however, brought the engines down to a
very slow movement. The _Marigold_ scarcely kept her headway.

The fire, which had undoubtedly been smouldering a long time, was
obstinate. The water the skipper and his helpers poured upon it raised
the level of water in the bilge until Darry declared he feared the
yacht would be water-logged.

Meanwhile the wind grew in savageness. Instead of being gusty, it blew
more and more violently out of the northeast. When the helmsman tried
to head into it, under the skipper's relayed instructions by Darry, the
lack of steam kept the old _Marigold_ marking time instead of forging
ahead.

"If we have to put the steam to the pump to clear the bilge after
this," grumbled the pessimistic Burd, "we'll never reach any shelter.
Might as well run for the Bermudas."


PURPOSE OF THIS SCENE:

==========

The purpose of this scene is to create suspense and tension as the characters try to put out a fire on the ship. The author also uses this scene to introduce the character of Darryl, who will become an important figure later in the story.