Write a concise summary of the following scene:


SCENE:
VII
BETHELDA

Well! I exclaimed; why have you not flown?

And where? she demanded.

Back to your Kalkar friends, I replied.

It is because you are not a Kalkar that I did not fly, she said.

How do you know that I am no Kalkar, I demanded, and why, if I am
not, should you not fly from me, who must be an enemy of your people?

You called him Kalkar as you charged him, she explained, and one
Kalkar does not call another Kalkar that. Neither am I a Kalkar.

I thought then of what the Or-tis had told me of the thousand Americans
who had wished to desert the Kalkars and join themselves with us. This
girl must be of them, then.

Who are you? I asked.

My name is Bethelda, she replied; and who are you?

She looked me squarely in the eyes with a fearless frankness that was
anything but Kalkarian. It was the first time that I had had a good look
at her. By The Flag! She was not difficult to look at. She had large,
gray-green eyes and heavy lashes and a cheerful countenance that seemed
even now to be upon the verge of laughter. There was something almost
boyish about her and yet she was all girl. I stood looking at her for so
long a time without speaking that a frown of impatience clouded her
brow.

I asked you who you are, she reminded me.

I am Julian 20th, The Red Hawk, I replied, and I thought for an
instant that her eyes went a little wider and that she looked
frightened; but I must have been mistaken, for I was to learn later that
it took more than a name to frighten Bethelda. Tell me where you are
going, I said, and I will ride with you, lest you be again attacked.

I do not know where to go, she replied, for wherever I go I meet
enemies.

Where are your people? I demanded.

I fear that they are all slain, she told me, a quiver in her voice.

But where were you going? You must have been going somewhere.

I was looking for a place to hide, she said. The Nipons would let me
stay with them if I could find them. My people were always kind to them.
They would be kind to me.

Your people were of the Kalkars, even though you say you are no Kalkar,
and the Nipons hate them. They would not take you in.

My people were Americans. They lived among the Kalkars, but they were
not Kalkars. We lived at the foot of these hills for almost a hundred
years and we often met the Nipons. They did not hate us, though they
hated the Kalkars about us.

Do you know Saku? I asked.

Since I was a little child I have known Saku, the Chief, she replied.

Come, then, I said, I will take you to Saku.

You know him? He is near?

Yes, come!

She followed me down the trail up which I had so recently come and
though I begrudged the time that it delayed me, I was glad that I might
have her off my hands so easily and so quickly, for, of a certainty, I
could not leave her alone and unprotected, nor could I take her upon my
long journey with me, even could I have prevailed upon my people to
accept her.

In less than an hour we came upon Sakus new camp, and the little people
were surprised indeed to see me, and overjoyed when they discovered
Bethelda, more than assuring me by their actions that the girl had been
far from stating the real measure of the esteem in which the Nipons held
her. When I would have turned to ride away they insisted that I remain
until morning, pointing out to me that the day was already far gone and
that being unfamiliar with the trails I might easily become lost and
thus lose more time than I would gain. The girl stood listening to our
conversation, and when I at last insisted that I must go because, having
no knowledge of the trails anyway, I would be as well off by night as by
day, she offered to guide me.


CONCISE SUMMARY:

==========

Bethelda, a girl from America who has been living among the Kalkars, tells Julian that she is not a Kalkar and he offers to take her with him to find the Nipons. She leads him to their camp, where he is made to stay the night. In the morning, he sets off with her as his guide.